目的 To investigate 晚期 efficacy and 接受 of induction 併 followed by 隨後 radiotherapy (IMRT) 調 advanced nasopharyngeal 療效 (NPC) patients. 材料 and Methods: 方法 patients with 收錄 untreated, stage 的 NPC received 鼻咽癌 bio-chemotherapy followed 接受 IMRT. Induction 併 consists of 隨後進行 P-FL (cisplatin 調 5-fluorouracil) doublet 為 17) or 處方 triplet of 例 (P-FL + 處方 n= 7) 或 P-FL-D (P-FL 一例 docetaxel, n= 一種 for a 在 of 10-12 同時 Cetuximab 400 舒 day 1, 天 250 mg/m^2 ^ administered every 控放療 IMRT 70 為 fractions were 體積 to T1-3 之 and 74 或 fractions or 一天 Gy/64 fractions 腫瘤 the T4 病人 Results: Baseline 中位 are median 歲 44 year-old; 病人 19/6; performance 臨床 ECOG 0/1= 四期 stage III/IV= 分型 and pathological 對 (WHO) IIa/IIb= 療合 All patients 治療 induction bio-chemotherapy 第 well. Grade 反應 toxicity included 低下 (8.0%) and 沒有 rashes (40.0%). 級 was no 反應 4 toxicity. 併 induction bio-chemotherapy, 後 obtained 52.0% 有 response rate 和 48.0% partial 緩解率 rate. Thirteen 於 24 (54.2%) 治療 who received 鼻咽 of the 切片 before IMRT 病理 reported as 存活 viable tumor. 續 was performed 調 with a 也 treatment time 總 49 days 於 45-53). After 天 median follow-up 蹤 21 months, 後 observed 4 發生 failures, all 轉移 distant sites. 存活率 2-year rates 無 survival, locoregional 存活率 and distant 無 survivals were 存活率 100%, and 和 respectively. Conclusion: 誘導化 chemotherapy plus 爾 weekly cetuximab 靶 by IMRT 調 a highly 晚期 protocol with 一種 low toxicity 且 advanced NPC.
Purpose: 目的 investigate the 晚期 and toxicity 接受 induction bio-chemotherapy 併 by intensity-modulated 隨後 (IMRT) for 調 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 療效 patients. Materials 材料 Methods: Twenty-five 方法 with previously 收錄 stage III/IV 的 received induction 鼻咽癌 followed by 接受 Induction chemotherapy 併 of weekly 隨後進行 (cisplatin + 調 doublet (n= 為 or a 處方 of P-FL-G 例 + gemcitabine, 處方 7) or 或 (P-FL + 一例 n= 1) 一種 a total 在 10-12 weeks. 同時 400 mg/m^2 舒 1, then 天 mg/m^2 were ^ every week. 控放療 70 Gy/35 為 were delivered 體積 T1-3 lesions 之 74 Gy/37 或 or 76.8 一天 fractions to 腫瘤 T4 tumor. 病人 Baseline characteristics 中位 median age= 歲 year-old; male/female= 病人 performance status 臨床 0/1= 13/12; 四期 III/IV= 12/13, 分型 pathological type 對 IIa/IIb= 12/13. 療合 patients tolerated 治療 bio-chemotherapy very 第 Grade 3 反應 included leucopenia 低下 and skin 沒有 (40.0%). There 級 no grade 反應 toxicity. After 併 bio-chemotherapy, we 後 52.0% complete 有 rate and 和 partial response 緩解率 Thirteen of 於 (54.2%) patients 治療 received re-biopsy 鼻咽 the nasopharynx 切片 IMRT were 病理 as no 存活 tumor. IMRT 續 performed smoothly 調 a median 也 time of 總 days (range 於 After a 天 follow-up of 蹤 months, we 後 4 treatment 發生 all in 轉移 sites. The 存活率 rates overall 無 locoregional failure-free 存活率 distant failure-free 無 were 100%, 存活率 and 80%, 和 Conclusion: Induction 誘導化 plus concurrent 爾 cetuximab followed 靶 IMRT is 調 highly effective 晚期 with very 一種 toxicity in 且 NPC.
目的 To evaluate 右側 effectiveness of 與 immobilization equipment 治療 right decubitus 之 for left 肺臟 cancer treatment 評估 comparing the 裝置 and lung 姿勢 of right 早期 position with 放射 of supine 之 Materials and 與 Twenty-one early-stage 研究 breast cancer 一位 of Koo 中心 Sun Yat-Sen 左側 Center (KFSYSCC) 的 collected in 依據 study. Based 的 the location 可分 the tumor 上 8 Upper 上 Quadrant (UIQ), 中心 Upper Outer 下 (UOQ), 4 個 2 Lower 每位 Quadrant (LIQ) 收取 2 Lower 姿勢 Quadrant (LOQ) 姿勢 were classified. 影像 sets of 右側 images (right 使用 and supine 二十度 were acquired. 發泡劑 alpha-cradle with 自 degrees tilt 部 homemade immobilization 對 of legs 姿勢 used for 治療 right decubitus 病人 while the 上舉 treatment position 治療 both arms 方向 and head 之計畫 to the 包覆 side of 經由 side was 乳房 for the ) position. Heart 心臟 (V_5, V_(10), ) and mean 心臟長 and lung ) (V_5, V_(10), 心肺 and mean ) of right 等 position were 心臟 with those _ supine position _ using parameters 及 breast volume, 與 Heart Distance _ Maximum Heart ) (MHL) and ) Lung Distance 劑量 in the 評估 condition of 躺 Target Volume 於 coverage. Results: 平躺 was no 優缺點 between breast 量 and heart 體積 Heart dose 聯性 be decreased 右側 using right 減少 position because 皆 decreased MHD 之 MHL. Under 劑量 condition, the 減少 decreased mean 比率 dose, V_5, 減少 and V_(25) ) 48.2% ± _ 7.6% ± 可 4.2% ± 所有 and 1.9% 姿勢 1.3%, respectively. 平躺 was not 值皆會 decreased in 躺 right decubitus 劑量 compared to 會 supine position. 區域 lung dose 內側 not always 躺 by using 平均 right decubitus _ Heart dose ) decreased effectively ) tumor in 更 LIQ. Heart 減少 for tumor 心臟劑 the UIQ _ UOQ was _ than that 較 other position. 在 tumor in 位置 Central position, 其右側 dose was 肺部 little bit 較 by using 增加 right decubitus 幅度 The mean 平均 of lung 厘 increased 16.4 劑量 and the 在 value was 結論 within 1%. 自 Heart dose 右 be decreased 姿 by using 有效 decubitus position. 之劑 immobilization equipment 已 right decubitus 於 is now 中心 used for 左側 left breast 之術 treatment at 治療
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 右側 of homemade 與 equipment of 治療 decubitus position 之 left breast 肺臟 treatment by 評估 the heart 裝置 lung doses 姿勢 right decubitus 早期 with those 放射 supine position. 之 and Methods: 與 early-stage left 研究 cancer patients 一位 Koo Foundation 中心 Yat-Sen Cancer 左側 (KFSYSCC) were 的 in this 依據 Based on 的 location of 可分 tumor bed, 上 Upper Inner 上 (UIQ), 5 中心 Outer Quadrant 下 4 Central, 個 Lower Inner 每位 (LIQ) and 收取 Lower Outer 姿勢 (LOQ) sites 姿勢 classified. Two 影像 of CT 右側 (right decubitus 使用 supine position) 二十度 acquired. Homemade 發泡劑 with 20 自 tilt and 部 immobilization device 對 legs were 姿勢 for the 治療 decubitus position 病人 the routine 上舉 position with 治療 arms raised 方向 head turned 之計畫 the opposite 包覆 of treatment 經由 was set 乳房 the supine ) Heart dose 心臟 V_(10), V_(25) ) mean dose) 心臟長 lung dose ) V_(10), V_(20) 心肺 mean dose) ) right decubitus 等 were compared 心臟 those of _ position by _ parameters of 及 volume, Maximum 與 Distance (MHD), _ Heart Length ) and Central ) Distance (CLD) 劑量 the same 評估 of Planning 躺 Volume (PTV) 於 Results: There 平躺 no correlation 優缺點 breast volume 量 heart dose. 體積 dose could 聯性 decreased by 右側 right decubitus 減少 because of 皆 MHD and 之 Under this 劑量 the maximum 減少 mean heart 比率 V_5, V_(10) 減少 V_(25) were ) ± 14.0%, _ ± 6.0%, 可 ± 2.4% 所有 1.9% ± 姿勢 respectively. CLD 平躺 not always 值皆會 in the 躺 decubitus position 劑量 to the 會 position. Therefore, 區域 dose was 內側 always decreased 躺 using the 平均 decubitus position. _ dose was ) effectively for ) in the 更 Heart dose 減少 tumor in 心臟劑 UIQ or _ was lower _ that in 較 position. For 在 in the 位置 position, lung 其右側 was a 肺部 bit increased 較 using the 增加 decubitus position. 幅度 mean dose 平均 lung was 厘 16.4 cGy 劑量 the Dose-Volume 在 was increased 結論 1%. Conclusion: 自 dose can 右 decreased effectively 姿 using right 有效 position. Homemade 之劑 equipment for 已 decubitus position 於 now routinely 中心 for early-stage 左側 breast cancer 之術 at KFSYSCC.
目的 To evaluate 之 dosimetric differences 是 coplanar and 體積 volume modulated 治療 therapy (VMAT) 平面 plans for 弧形 with hepatocellular 肝門 with portal 肝癌 tumor thrombosis. 計畫 and Method: 佈 coplanar and 與 VMAT plans 研究 seven patients 血栓 HCC and 進行 were designed 體積 a prescribed 計畫 50 Gy 共 25 fractions. 弧形 plan quality 畫 such as 次數 conformity and 劑量 homogeneity, would 計畫 calculate in 評估 same dose 勻度 of 100% 順 dose covered 歸 PTV. The 的 of spinal 可以 kidney, small 計畫 and normal 危及 (whole liver 腎臟 CTV) would 肝臟 collect and 則 by Wilcoxon 符號 test. Results 統計 The average 共 of coplanar 共 noncoplanar VMAT 調控 were 0.809 之 0.059 and 指標 ± 0.043, 和 the average 勻度 were 1.041 為 0.007 and 顯示 ± 0.008. 計畫 were no 指標 difference in 勻度 conformity and 之 between two 平面 sets. The 治療 dose in 脊髓 cord and 左側 bowel, and 平均 dose in 正常 side kidney, _ V_5, V_(10), ) V_(30), V_(40), _ of normal _ in noncoplanar ( plans were 略低 lower than 體積 in coplanar 治療 but without 上 difference. The 之 dose of 組織 liver were 劑量 decreased from 平面 ± 5.00 治療 in coplanar 顯著 plans to 平面 ± 4.93 弧形 in noncoplanar 右側 plans. (p= 平均 The mean 平面 of right 弧形 kidney were 顯著 decreased from 共 ± 3.07 弧形 in coplanar 之 plans to _ ± 2.30 亦 in noncoplanar 平面 plans (p= 治療 and V_(18) 顯著 right side 平面 were significantly 弧形 from 3.57 結論 5.88% in 體積 VMAT plans 技術 0.93 ± 肝門 in noncoplanar 肝癌 plans (p= 治療 Conclusions: The 製 VMAT plans 相同 in treatments 計畫 HCC patients 包覆 PVT may 均 mean dose 順形度 normal liver 可以 mean dose 組織 V_(18) of 劑量 side kidney 之 similar PTV 及 coverage, homogeneity 之體積 conformity.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 之 differences between 是 and noncoplanar 體積 modulated arc 治療 (VMAT) treatment 平面 for patients 弧形 hepatocellular carcinoma 肝門 portal vein 肝癌 thrombosis. Materials 計畫 Method: Both 佈 and noncoplanar 與 plans of 研究 patients with 血栓 and PVT 進行 designed with 體積 prescribed dose 計畫 Gy in 共 fractions. The 弧形 quality indexes, 畫 as dose 次數 and dose 劑量 would be 計畫 in the 評估 dose coverage 勻度 100% prescribed 順 covered 95% 歸 The doses 的 spinal cord, 可以 small bowel 計畫 normal liver 危及 liver minus 腎臟 would be 肝臟 and analyzed 則 Wilcoxon signed-rank 符號 Results : 統計 average conformity 共 coplanar and 共 VMAT plans 調控 0.809 ± 之 and 0.847 指標 0.043, and 和 average homogeneity 勻度 1.041 ± 為 and 1.047 顯示 0.008. There 計畫 no significant 指標 in both 勻度 and homogeneity 之 two plan 平面 The maximal 治療 in spinal 脊髓 and small 左側 and mean 平均 in left 正常 kidney, and _ V_(10), V_(20), ) V_(40), V_(50) _ normal liver _ noncoplanar VMAT ( were slightly 略低 than that 體積 coplanar plans, 治療 without significant 上 The mean 之 of normal 組織 were significantly 劑量 from 17.15 平面 5.00 Gy 治療 coplanar VMAT 顯著 to 16.01 平面 4.93 Gy 弧形 noncoplanar VMAT 右側 (p= 0.018) 平均 mean dose 平面 right side 弧形 were significantly 顯著 from 4.89 共 3.07 Gy 弧形 coplanar VMAT 之 to 3.55 _ 2.30 Gy 亦 noncoplanar VMAT 平面 (p= 0.018), 治療 V_(18) of 顯著 side kidney 平面 significantly decreased 弧形 3.57 ± 結論 in coplanar 體積 plans to 技術 ± 2.44% 肝門 noncoplanar VMAT 肝癌 (p= 0.043). 治療 The noncoplanar 製 plans used 相同 treatments of 計畫 patients with 包覆 may decrease 均 dose of 順形度 liver and 可以 dose and 組織 of right 劑量 kidney in 之 PTV dose 及 homogeneity and 之體積
研究 To compare 三維順形 secondary cancer 技術 (SCR) in 治療 irradiation for 調控 radiotherapy-planning techniques, 治療 three dimension 利用 radiation therapy 劑量 intensity-modulated radiation 二次 (IMRT) and 評估 arc therapy 得到 The SCRmodel 材料 established by 選取 organ equivalent 至 (OED) to 全腦 the value 治療 extra absolute 病患 (EAR). Materials 對象 Methods: In 三種 five patients 治療 included who 計畫 cranio-spinal irradiation 量 March 2010 輸出 February 2016 等效 our hospital. 參數 different treatment 絕對 were created 種 3D-CRT, IMRT 評估 VMAT. The 所 histogram (DVH) 二次 was used 結果 calculate OED 的 SCR. Three 危急 models established 劑量 be utilized 外絕 evaluate secondary 評估 risks after 在 irradiation. Results: 照射 highest EAR 小腸 in small 外絕 was greater 為 50 for 於 as well 之 in lung 評估 greater than 肺部 (per 10,000/per 之額 for VMAT. 危險度 the EAR 於 in liver 之 oral cavity 評估 less than 在 (per 10,000/per 口腔 for the 之額 techniques. Conclusion: 為 is the 於 study to 極低 the EAR 研究 and evaluation 針對 SCRs by 三種 radiotherapy-planning techniques 進行 cranio-spinal irradiation 異比較 Taiwan. The 本地 can be 治療 as a 癌症 reference for 臨床 secondary malignancy 之 after radiation 參考
Purpose: 研究 compare the 三維順形 cancer risk 技術 in cranio-spinal 治療 for three 調控 techniques, namely, 治療 dimension conformal 利用 therapy (3D-CRT), 劑量 radiation therapy 二次 and volumetric-modulated 評估 therapy (VMAT). 得到 SCRmodel was 材料 by usingthe 選取 equivalent dose 至 to calculate 全腦 value of 治療 absolute risk 病患 Materials & 對象 In total 三種 patients were 治療 who underwent 計畫 irradiation between 量 2010 and 輸出 2016 in 等效 hospital. Three 參數 treatment plans 絕對 created including 種 IMRT and 評估 The dose-volume 所 (DVH) obtained 二次 used to 結果 OED and 的 Three SCR 危急 established can 劑量 utilized to 外絕 secondary cancer 評估 after cranio-spinal 在 Results: The 照射 EAR value 小腸 small intestine 外絕 greater than 為 for 3D-CRT; 於 well as 之 lung was 評估 than 30 肺部 10,000/per year) 之額 VMAT. However, 危險度 EAR values 於 liver and 之 cavity were 評估 than 10 在 10,000/per year) 口腔 the three 之額 Conclusion: This 為 the first 於 to establish 極低 EAR parameters 研究 evaluation of 針對 by three 三種 techniques in 進行 irradiation in 異比較 The result 本地 be used 治療 a clinical 癌症 for evaluating 臨床 malignancy risks 之 radiation therapy.
目的 Cancer patients 腦轉移 intracranial metastasis 在 traditionally treated 全腦 bilateral-field (BF) 線 for whole 時 radiation therapy 上 Planning BF 時間 simple and 短與節 both treatment 製 planning time. 治療 the relatively 時間 method suffers 雙側 lack of 照野 conformity and 技術 These two 簡單 may increase 粗糙 complications of 治療 tissue and 之劑 loss. However, 均 current improved 與 the rapid 均 of therapeutic 可能 systems and 正常 development of 的 treatment technologies 然而 as volume 科技 arc therapy 治療 and field-in-field 運算 techniques, the 加快 quality of 野內照 brain irradiation 治療 be reconsidered. 體積 and Methods: 弧形 contours of 等 brain PTV 發展 the critical 重新 of ten 能 were determined 治療 one radiation 之 and checked 照射 another one. 材料 fields whole 針對 treatment plans 病患 created. At 別 same time, 作 pair of 側 from the 照 plans were 照野 to MLCs 調控 create FIF 治療 All BF, 治療 and VMAT 所有 for each 計劃 had a 總醫囑 dose of 為 Gy in 分次 fractions. The 歸 maximum dose, 至 comformity, and 的 homogeneity were 包覆 to the 總體 level as 量值 tumor coverage. 順形度 organ doses 劑量 normalized to 勻度 single biological 器官 dose of 均 Gy fractions. 一至 data was 之 with non-parametric 劑量 Results: The 無母 maximal doses 進行 to the 分析 dose) of 與 FIF and 計畫 plans were 最大 ± 1.62% 百分比 ± std), 至 ± 1.16% 劑量 110.53% ± 為 The mean 平均 of BF, 劑量 and VMAT 為 were 0.633 平均 0.033, 0.664 劑量 0.023 and 勻度 ± 0.011. 為 mean homogeneity 治療 BF, FIF 有 VMAT plans 的 0.552 ± 順形度 0.841 ± 顯著 and 0.284 靶區 0.086. The 危及 regimen had 劑量 better dose 唾液腺 and therefore 杓 reduced organ 然而 at the 差 organs, such 劑量 spinal cord, 勻度 nerve, parotid 使得 cochleae, and 危及 scalp. However, 劑量 dose homogeneity 幹 compromised organ 與 endpoints (such 交叉 the brainstem, 微 and optic 結論 with slightly 有 doses. Conclusions: 的 FIF treatment 劑量 has the 及 percentage of 的 dose and 均 best dose 故 so the 可 treatment plan 取代 completely replace 計劃 BF treatment 增進 to improve 照射 quality of 品質 irradiation treatment. 計劃 better dose 的 for the 順形度 treatment plan 降低 organ complications 外 the target 器官 with somewhat 劑量 homogeneity. Both 勻度 or VMAT 或 be used 均 a treatment 為 to improve 轉移 quality of 生活 of patients 的 brain metastases.
Purpose: 目的 patients with 腦轉移 metastasis were 在 treated with 全腦 (BF) technique 線 whole brain 時 therapy (WBRT). 上 BF is 時間 and saves 短與節 treatment and 製 time. However, 治療 relatively crude 時間 suffers from 雙側 of dose 照野 and homogeneity. 技術 two factors 簡單 increase the 粗糙 of normal 治療 and hair 之劑 However, with 均 improved techniques, 與 rapid development 均 therapeutic planning 可能 and the 正常 of new 的 technologies such 然而 volume modulated 科技 therapy (VMAT), 治療 field-in-field (FIF) 運算 the treatment 加快 of whole 野內照 irradiation should 治療 reconsidered. Materials 體積 Methods: The 弧形 of whole 等 PTV and 發展 critical organs 重新 ten patients 能 determined by 治療 radiation oncologist 之 checked by 照射 one. Bilateral- 材料 whole brain 針對 plans were 病患 At the 別 time, a 作 of sub-fields 側 the BF 照 were modified 照野 MLCs to 調控 FIF plans. 治療 BF, FIF 治療 VMAT plans 所有 each patient 計劃 a prescribed 總醫囑 of 30 為 in 12 分次 The global 歸 dose, dose 至 and dose 的 were calculated 包覆 the same 總體 as the 量值 coverage. All 順形度 doses were 劑量 to a 勻度 biological equivalent 器官 of 2 均 fractions. All 一至 was analyzed 之 non-parametric statistics. 劑量 The average 無母 doses (normalized 進行 the prescribed 分析 of BF, 與 and VMAT 計畫 were 113.28% 最大 1.62% (mean 百分比 std), 108.33% 至 1.16% and 劑量 ± 0.25%. 為 mean conformity 平均 BF, FIF 劑量 VMAT plans 為 0.633 ± 平均 0.664 ± 劑量 and 0.853 勻度 0.011. The 為 homogeneity of 治療 FIF and 有 plans were 的 ± 0.166, 順形度 ± 0.150 顯著 0.284 ± 靶區 The VMAT 危及 had a 劑量 dose conformity 唾液腺 therefore significantly 杓 organ damage 然而 the critical 差 such as 劑量 cord, optic 勻度 parotid glands, 使得 and posterior 危及 However, poor 劑量 homogeneity also 幹 organ dose 與 (such as 交叉 brainstem, hippocampus 微 optic chiasm) 結論 slightly elevated 有 Conclusions: The 的 treatment plan 劑量 the lowest 及 of maximum 的 and the 均 dose homogeneity, 故 the FIF 可 plan could 取代 replace the 計劃 treatment plan 增進 improve the 照射 of whole-brain 品質 treatment. The 計劃 dose conformity 的 the VMAT 順形度 plan reduces 降低 complications outside 外 target area 器官 somewhat worse 劑量 Both FIF 勻度 VMAT can 或 used as 均 treatment option 為 improve the 轉移 of life 生活 patients with 的 metastases.
目的 To Investigate 接受 coplanar and 全腦 treatment plan 比較 hippocampal-sparing whole 非 radiotherapy. Materials 治療 Methods: In 兩種 study, we 分布 nine indicated 與 with brain 研究 to receive 某醫院 whole brain 於 in regional 年間 in Southern 條件 from 2016 腫瘤 2017. We 避海馬 to compare 放射 different treatment 放射 using the 為 of volumetric 放射 arc therapy. 兩種 patients were 計畫 with head 每位 and set 頭部 a head 度 angle of 行電腦 and then 利用 computed tomography 系統 We analyzed 與 coplanar and 兩種 treatment plan 計畫 therapy planning 指標 (Philip Pinnacle 各個 System Version 的 Dose constraints 結果 set equally 結果 compare homogeneity 兩種 and conformity 是 of the 體積 target volume 所 and organs 劑量 risk (OAR), 放射 the hippocampus, 腫瘤 lens, and 號的 nerves. Results: 值 results show 計畫 treatment plan 中 conform the 及 guideline of 指標 Therapy Oncology 非共 0933. The 皆 and conformal 平面 of two 計上 plans, non-coplanar 的 is better 非共 coplanar plan 中 The dose 迴 of D_(2%), 之 and D_(mean) ) PTV between 與 hippocampus, non-coplanar 較 is more 計畫 than coplanar 顯著 and achieve 兩種 significance (p＜ 海馬 The dose 迴 two plans 的 both hippocampus 著 hippocampus avoidance 兩種 is similar 對 0.05). Other 則無顯 in both ＞ plans was 時間 similar (p＞ 共 However, treatment 較 of the 平面 plan can 治療 significantly shorter 達 the non-coplanar 差異 (p＜ 0.05). 平面 Our study 共 the non-coplanar 計畫 is better 治療 the coplanar 兩種 However, longer 皆 time is 海馬 in non-coplanar 但 Whether the 平面 therapy time 需 lead to 較長 discomfort, then 致病 to internal 造成 and set-up 與 Ongoing study 則是 to be 探討 explored clinically.
Purpose: 目的 Investigate the 接受 and non-coplanar 全腦 plan in 比較 whole brain 非 Materials and 治療 In this 兩種 we enrolled 分布 indicated patients 與 brain metastasis 研究 receive hippocampal-sparing 某醫院 brain radiotherapy 於 regional hospital 年間 Southern Taiwan 條件 2016 to 腫瘤 We conducted 避海馬 compare two 放射 treatment plans 放射 the technique 為 volumetric modulated 放射 therapy. All 兩種 were fixed 計畫 head mask 每位 set up 頭部 head flexion 度 of 30°, 行電腦 then received 利用 tomography simulation. 系統 analyzed the 與 and non-coplanar 兩種 plan using 計畫 planning system 指標 Pinnacle Planning 各個 Version 9.2). 的 constraints were 結果 equally to 結果 homogeneity index 兩種 conformity index 是 the planning 體積 volume (PTV), 所 organs at 劑量 (OAR), including 放射 hippocampus, eyes, 腫瘤 and optic 號的 Results: The 值 show two 計畫 plan all 中 the dose-limited 及 of Radiotherapy 指標 Oncology Group 非共 The homogeneity 皆 conformal index 平面 two treatment 計上 non-coplanar plan 的 better than 非共 plan (p＜0.05). 中 dose distribution 迴 D_(2%), D_(98%), 之 D_(mean) of ) between bilateral 與 non-coplanar plan 較 more homogenous 計畫 coplanar counterpart 顯著 achieve statistical 兩種 (p＜ 0.05). 海馬 dose of 迴 plans in 的 hippocampus and 著 avoidance region 兩種 similar (p＞ 對 Other OAR 則無顯 both two ＞ was also 時間 (p＞ 0.05). 共 treatment time 較 the coplanar 平面 can be 治療 shorter than 達 non-coplanar plan 差異 0.05). Conclusions: 平面 study concluded 共 non-coplanar plan 計畫 better than 治療 coplanar plan. 兩種 longer therapy 皆 is needed 海馬 non-coplanar plan. 但 the longer 平面 time might 需 to patient's 較長 then result 致病 internal shift 造成 set-up error. 與 study need 則是 be further 探討 clinically.
目的 We investigate 螺旋 factors to 放射 setup errors 影響 the course 的 radiotherapy using 因素 TomoTherapy® and 臨床 required safety 誤差 for planning 靶 volume (PTV) 所 Materials and 之 The literature 邊緣值 that may 方法 setup errors 可能 systematic error 病人 and random 誤差 (σ). The 因素 to impact 系統 in radiotherapy 和 be caused 差 age of σ gender, tumor 包括 body mass 年齡 (BMI), weight 位置 cancer stage, 指數 the status 減輕 metastasis. In 及 study, we 轉移 a total 本 138 patients 台灣 received helical 某區域 from 2013 治療 2016 at 年 regional hospital 位 southern Taiwan. 螺旋 patients received 加速器 computed tomography 前以 daily therapy 電腦 checkup. A 攝影 of 4081 影像 of images 治療 collected for 收集 of setup 各分次 We calculate 影像 standard deviations 擺位 daily setup 計算 of each 病人 in three 三軸 directions (X, 向量 Z-axis), three 軸 (3D) vector, 擺位 Y-axis (roll) 及標 during the 利用 Then Σ 計算 σ are Σ from adopted 數值 in the 病人 In the 三軸 we analyzed 旋轉 to factors 誤差 influence setup 因素 during treatment. 提出 formula (2.5Σ+0.7σ) Σ the author 得出 Herk et 治療 is proposed 需建議 recommend safety 邊緣值 of PTV 治療 Results: The 影響 significantly affect 及 setup error 的 X, Y, 平均 3D vector, 發現 Y-axis (roll) 病人 were in 位置 of patient’s ＜ (p= 0.05), 計顯 sites (p＜ 單變 and BMI 迴 0.001). Single 影響 analysis in 誤差 to affect 因素 vector setup 位置 we found 腫瘤 sites, weight 達統 and tumor 異性 to achieve 迴 significance. Another 分析 regression analysis 的 factors to 誤差 Y-axis (roll) 顯示 setup error, 位置 disclosed only 擺位 site to 達統 statistical significance. 異性 multiple regression 變項 we concluded 逐步 site is 分析 only factor 腫瘤 influence setup 計顯 significantly (p＜ 異性 In the 所 we recommended 三軸 safety margins 邊緣值 PTV are 腹部 mm in 部 Y, Z- 腫瘤 in chest, 歲 pelvis, and 及 tumors. The 邊緣 margins are 為 mm and 結論 mm in 發現 age group 斷層 70-89 and 期間 BMI ≥25 誤差 Conclusion: The 重要 factors to 病人 setup error 位置 age of 安全 tumor site, 需針 BMI. In 這些 study, we 誤差 the safety 不同 in PTV 治療 be individualized 建議值 on these 為 error factors 斷層 the clinical 的 of helical 的
Objective: 目的 investigate treatment-related 螺旋 to affect 放射 errors during 影響 course in 的 using helical 因素 and recommend 臨床 safety margins 誤差 planning target 靶 (PTV) clinically. 所 and Methods: 之 literature indicates 邊緣值 may affect 方法 errors including 可能 error (Σ) 病人 random error 誤差 The factors 因素 impact σ 系統 radiotherapy may 和 caused by 差 of patient, σ tumor site, 包括 mass index 年齡 weight loss, 位置 stage, and 指數 status whether 減輕 In the 及 we collected 轉移 total of 本 patients who 台灣 helical TomoTherapy® 某區域 2013 to 治療 at a 年 hospital in 位 Taiwan. All 螺旋 received megavoltage 加速器 tomography for 前以 therapy position 電腦 A total 攝影 4081 sets 影像 images were 治療 for analysis 收集 setup error. 各分次 calculate means, 影像 deviations of 擺位 setup error 計算 each patient 病人 three axis 三軸 (X, Y, 向量 three dimensional 軸 vector, and 擺位 (roll) rotation 及標 the treatment. 利用 Σ and 計算 are derived Σ adopted equations 數值 the literature. 病人 the study 三軸 analyzed which 旋轉 factors to 誤差 setup error 因素 treatment. The 提出 (2.5Σ+0.7σ) by Σ author van 得出 et al. 治療 proposed to 需建議 safety margin 邊緣值 PTV clinically. 治療 The factors 影響 affect daily 及 error in 的 Y, Z-axis, 平均 vector, and 發現 (roll) rotation 病人 in groups 位置 patient’s age ＜ 0.05), tumor 計顯 (p＜ 0.001), 單變 BMI (p＜ 迴 Single regression 影響 in factors 誤差 affect 3D 因素 setup error, 位置 found tumor 腫瘤 weight loss, 達統 tumor stage 異性 achieve statistical 迴 Another single 分析 analysis in 的 to affect 誤差 (roll) rotation 顯示 error, we 位置 only tumor 擺位 to achieve 達統 significance. After 異性 regression model, 變項 concluded tumor 逐步 is the 分析 factor to 腫瘤 setup error 計顯 (p＜ 0.001). 異性 the study, 所 recommended wider 三軸 margins of 邊緣值 are 5-11 腹部 in X, 部 Z- axes 腫瘤 chest, abdomen, 歲 and prostate 及 The safety 邊緣 are 5-8 為 and 5-6 結論 in the 發現 group of 斷層 and the 期間 ≥25 respectively. 誤差 The important 重要 to affect 病人 error are 位置 of patient, 安全 site, and 需針 In this 這些 we recommend 誤差 safety margin 不同 PTV should 治療 individualized based 建議值 these setup 為 factors in 斷層 clinical practice 的 helical TomoTherapy®.
目的 Stereotactic body 定位 therapy (SBRT) 放射 widely used 一種 therapy for 應用 lung cancer 肺腫瘤 metastases. Four-dimensional 治療 tomography (4DCT) 四維電腦 the most 掃描 technique used 提供 estimate the 在 motion of 體內 cancer tumors. 移動 purpose of 有效 study was 研究 observe tumor 分析 with 4DCT 四維電腦 in SBRT 掃描 Materials and 立體 This study 軀體 a retrospective 治療 From September 的 to March 資訊 forty patients 方法 proven pathology 研究 lung cancer 年 pulmonary metastasis, 至 with stereotactic 在 radiotherapy were 接受 in this 定位 All patients 線 three dimensional 的 and four 或 (4D) CT 肺 GTV_(3D) and 所有 were created 皆 3D and 三維及 scanning, respectively. 斷層 volume, position 並由 other tumor 影像 included matching 兩種 (MI) and ) of inclusion _ between GTV_(3D) 紀錄 GTV_(4D) were 較 compared in 之體積 study. Results: 與 tumor motion 靶 by comparison 分析 different 4DCT 結果 was highest 掃描 the CC 分析 (mean 0.65 移動 median 0.40 以 range 0.10 方向 2.70 cm). 顯著 next highest 結果 for the 病人 direction (mean 後 cm, median 腳 mm, range 分別 - 0.90 分析 then the 幅度 direction (mean 位置 cm, median 係 cm, range 別 - 0.40 移動 The mean 在 vector was 與 ± 0.21 肺葉 0.73 ± 與 cm and 顯示 ± 0.81 下 in upper, 腫瘤 and lower 移動 respectively. This 並且 that tumors 方向 in the 顯著 lobe of 數值 lung exhibited 肺葉 greatest amount 明顯 motion, and 中 magnitude was 肺葉 greatest along 分析 CC axis. 移動 MI and 發現 in the 幅度 lobe was 腫瘤 different from 位置 upper and 統計學 lobes (p 顯著 0.05). No 結論 or anatomic 的 were identified 位移 being related 定位 the magnitude 放射 the tumor 病人 except for 重要 location (p= 考量 Conclusion: Respiration 斷層 tumor motion 可 an important 的 in high 計畫 SBRT. Using 參考 information can 根據 improve the 建議 definition for 研究 cancer. The 顯示 management technique 技術 necessary for 於 and lower 腫瘤 lobes tumors 其 our study 腫瘤 to The 體內 Task Group 非均 report [11]. 頭腳 tumor motion 的 all patients 顯然 anisotropic, the 於 was significantly 方向 in the 於 direction than 的 AP and 特別 directions. To 膈膜 the target 其移動 and reduce 明顯 normal tissue 中 The anisotropic 肺葉 of ITV 對 more appropriate 考量 isotropic margin 位移 lung tumor. 腫瘤 tumor movement 時 lower lobe 非均 is obviously 的 than in 位移 upper and 才能 lobes, especially 量 tumors are 在 to the 少 wall and 組織 The greater 的 in the 特別 direction especially 對 lower lobe 高劑 should be 低分 To account 立體 internal motions 軀體 arise from 病人 the 4DCT 可 necessary for 腫瘤 tumor especially 的 SBRT patients.
Purpose: 目的 body radiation 定位 (SBRT) is 放射 used as 一種 for localized 應用 cancer or 肺腫瘤 Four-dimensional computed 治療 (4DCT) is 四維電腦 most common 掃描 used to 提供 the internal 在 of lung 體內 tumors. The 移動 of this 有效 was to 研究 tumor motion 分析 4DCT image 四維電腦 SBRT patients. 掃描 and Methods: 立體 study was 軀體 retrospective analysis. 治療 September 2008 的 March 2016; 資訊 patients with 方法 pathology for 研究 cancer or 年 metastasis, treated 至 stereotactic body 在 were included 接受 this study. 定位 patients underwent 線 dimensional (3D) 的 four dimensional 或 CT scans. 肺 and GTV_(4D) 所有 created from 皆 and 4DCT 三維及 respectively. The 斷層 position and 並由 tumor parameters, 影像 matching index 兩種 and degree ) inclusion (DI) _ GTV_(3D) and 紀錄 were also 較 in this 之體積 Results: The 與 motion measured 靶 comparison of 分析 4DCT phases 結果 highest for 掃描 CC direction 分析 0.65 cm, 移動 0.40 cm, 以 0.10 - 方向 cm). The 顯著 highest was 結果 the AP 病人 (mean 0.24 後 median 0.20 腳 range 0 分別 0.90 cm) 分析 the LR 幅度 (mean 0.15 位置 median 0.10 係 range 0 別 0.40 cm). 移動 mean motion 在 was 0.44 與 0.21 cm, 肺葉 ± 0.45 與 and 1.35 顯示 0.81 cm 下 upper, middle 腫瘤 lower lobes, 移動 This shows 並且 tumors located 方向 the lower 顯著 of the 數值 exhibited the 肺葉 amount of 明顯 and the 中 was usually 肺葉 along the 分析 axis. The 移動 and DI 發現 the lower 幅度 was significantly 腫瘤 from the 位置 and middle 統計學 (p ＜ 顯著 No clinical 結論 anatomic factors 的 identified as 位移 related to 定位 magnitude of 放射 tumor excursion, 病人 for lobe 重要 (p= 0.005). 考量 Respiration induced 斷層 motion is 可 important issue 的 high precision 計畫 Using 4DCT 參考 can greatly 根據 the target 建議 for lung 研究 The respiratory 顯示 technique is 技術 for middle 於 lower lung 腫瘤 tumors in 其 study according 腫瘤 The AAPM 體內 Group 76 非均 [11]. The 頭腳 motion in 的 patients was 顯然 the amplitude 於 significantly larger 方向 the CC 於 than in 的 and LR 特別 To avoid 膈膜 target missing 其移動 reduce the 明顯 tissue irradiated. 中 anisotropic margins 肺葉 ITV were 對 appropriate than 考量 margin in 位移 tumor. The 腫瘤 movement in 時 lobe tumors 非均 obviously greater 的 in the 位移 and middle 才能 especially where 量 are adhered 在 the chest 少 and diaphragm. 組織 greater margin 的 the CC 特別 especially for 對 lobe tumors 高劑 be added. 低分 account the 立體 motions which 軀體 from breathing, 病人 4DCT is 可 for lung 腫瘤 especially in 的 patients.
目的 Based on 為 published studies, 刀 resection of 消融 metastatic nodules 用 improve the 肺 for sarcoma 治療 Here, we 副作用 to report 本 safety and 惡性 of stereotactic 肺部 radiotherapy (SABR) 病灶 a local 接受 for pulmonary 放射 sarcoma. Case 效果 The present 反應 demonstrated sarcoma 蹤 who were 腦 for pulmonary 以 lesions using 準則 CyberKnife® radiosurgery 則透過 There were 門診 total of 詢問 patients with 的 lesions. In 蹤 first 3 等級 post SABR, 記錄 lesion was 追 response, another 間 partial response, 到 lesions was 病人 disease and 七個 1 lesion 病灶 progressive disease. 定位 survival for 治療 patient was 月 19 and 病灶 months from 一個 metastasis diagnosis, 另外 No high 維持 toxicity was 只有 at the 惡化 of analysis. 本 The present 觀察到 demonstrated that 副作用 may be 不 acceptable alternative 手術 for pulmonary 立體 sarcoma in 治療 in whom 肺部 is contraindicated. 肉瘤 more patients 可以 required for 方案 analysis.
Introduction: 目的 on recently 為 studies, surgical 刀 of pulmonary 消融 nodules may 用 the prognosis 肺 sarcoma patients. 治療 we try 副作用 report the 本 and efficacy 惡性 stereotactic ablative 肺部 (SABR) as 病灶 local treatment 接受 pulmonary metastatic 放射 Case report: 效果 present report 反應 sarcoma patients 蹤 were treated 腦 pulmonary metastatic 以 using the 準則 radiosurgery system. 則透過 were a 門診 of three 詢問 with seven 的 In the 蹤 3 months 等級 SABR, one 記錄 was complete 追 another was 間 response, 4 到 was stable 病人 and only 七個 lesion was 病灶 disease. Overall 定位 for each 治療 was 11, 月 and 35 病灶 from lung 一個 diagnosis, respectively. 另外 high grade 維持 was observed 只有 the time 惡化 analysis. Discussion: 本 present report 觀察到 that SABR 副作用 be an 不 alternative option 手術 pulmonary metastatic 立體 in patients 治療 whom surgery 肺部 contraindicated. However, 肉瘤 patients are 可以 for statistical 方案
目的 The aim 主要 this study 前 to investigate 數量 relationship between 影響 pretreatment lymphocyte 根治性 (preT LC) 的 clinical outcomes 預後 patients with 方法 cancer treated 研究 chemoradiation (CRT) 位 radiotherapy (RT) 長 and Methods: 接受 610 patients 放療 newly diagnosed 頸癌 cancer who 追 treated by 中 or RT 間 retrospectively reviewed. 度 median follow-up 根據療 was 5.13 數量 Overall survival ＜ local recurrence-free . (LFS), regional 分群 survival (RFS) 存活率 distant metastasis-free 區域 (DMFS) were 轉移 by preT 的 with a 治療 of 1885 淋巴球 (＜ 1,885 中位 vs. ≥ μ cells/μL) Results: 於 preT median 較 count was 的 cells/μL (range: 較 Patients in 的 preT LC 顯著 was characterized 的 higher BMI 指數 = 0.023), 高 smoker (p 喝酒 0.001), and 經過 drinker (p 後 0.043). On 前有 analysis, patients 淋巴球 higher preT 比起 were statistically 一方 associated with 整體 OS and 無遠端 than those 上 lower preT 上 There was 的 significant difference 在 preT LC 腫瘤 in terms 則無觀察到 LFS and 本 Conclusions: Our 觀察到 demonstrates that 根治性 preT LC 頭頸癌 independently associated 前有 better DMFS 多 OS for 有 with head-and-neck 的 treated with 及 or RT
Purpose: 目的 aim of 主要 study was 前 investigate the 數量 between the 影響 lymphocyte count 根治性 LC) and 的 outcomes in 預後 with head-and-neck 方法 treated with 研究 (CRT) or 位 (RT) Materials 長 Methods: All 接受 patients with 放療 diagnosed head-and-neck 頸癌 who were 追 by CCRT 中 RT were 間 reviewed. The 度 follow-up duration 根據療 5.13 years. 數量 survival (OS), ＜ recurrence-free survival . regional recurrence-free 分群 (RFS) and 存活率 metastasis-free survival 區域 were analyzed 轉移 preT LC, 的 a cutoff 治療 1885 cells/μL. 淋巴球 1,885 cells/μL 中位 ≥ 1,885 μ Results: The 於 median lymphocyte 較 was 1,885 的 (range: 285-5341). 較 in higher 的 LC group 顯著 characterized by 的 BMI (p 指數 0.023), more 高 (p ＜ 喝酒 and more 經過 (p = 後 On multivariate 前有 patients with 淋巴球 preT LC 比起 statistically significantly 一方 with better 整體 and DMFS 無遠端 those with 上 preT LC. 上 was no 的 difference between 在 LC groups 腫瘤 terms of 則無觀察到 and RFS. 本 Our data 觀察到 that higher 根治性 LC was 頭頸癌 associated with 前有 DMFS and 多 for patients 有 head-and-neck cancer 的 with CRT 及 RT
前言 Recent studies 發現 revealed that 質 structure (nanotopography) 接觸面 extracellular matrix 表面 an important 影響 of cell 學 However, it 特性 unknown whether 結構 regulates cancer 影響 behaviors upon 游離 to ionizing 反應 (IR). Materials 材料 Methods: Hepatoma 本 lines and 肝癌 squamous cell 癌細胞 cell line 在 cultured on 奈米 polycaprolactone surfaces 聚己 were irradiated. 在 formation was 觀察球體 and expression 利用 cancer stemness-related 反應 (Sox2, Nanog 輻射 Oct3/4) was 幹細胞 with quantitative 的 chain reaction. 研究 In this 游離 we showed 誘導 IR induced 癌幹 of stemness 基因 including Sox2, 細胞株 and Oct3/4 均 several cancer 奈米 lines. Growing 則此 hepatoma cells 被 a square 肝癌 of evenly-spaced 在 made of 近均勻 attenuates cancer 孔 genes expression 輻射 by IR. 誘導 J5 cells 現癌 a near-square 基因 of nanopits 游離 smaller effects 幹細胞 IR-induced cancer 表現 genes expression. 亦 phenomenon was 一鱗狀 in another 株 line derived 結論 squamous cell 提供 Conclusions: We 顯示 experimental evidence 誘導癌 radiation-induced expression 基因 cancer stemness 過程 in cancer 附 is regulated 奈米 nanotopography of 調控 attaching surface. 與 research is 特性 to analyze 之間 interaction between 互動 signaling and 在 stemness, as 生物 as the 應用 for cancer 探討
Introduction: 前言 studies have 發現 that nanoscale 質 (nanotopography) of 接觸面 matrix is 表面 important regulator 影響 cell biology. 學 it remains 特性 whether nanotopography 結構 cancer cell 影響 upon exposure 游離 ionizing radiation 反應 Materials and 材料 Hepatoma cell 本 and a 肝癌 cell carcinoma 癌細胞 line were 在 on nanopatterned 奈米 surfaces and 聚己 irradiated. Sphere 在 was counted 觀察球體 expression of 利用 stemness-related genes 反應 Nanog and 輻射 was measured 幹細胞 quantitative polymerase 的 reaction. Results: 研究 this study, 游離 showed that 誘導 induced expression 癌幹 stemness genes 基因 Sox2, Nanog 細胞株 Oct3/4 in 均 cancer cell 奈米 Growing J5 則此 cells on 被 square lattice 肝癌 evenly-spaced nanopits 在 of polycaprolactone 近均勻 cancer stemness 孔 expression induced 輻射 IR. Growing 誘導 cells on 現癌 near-square lattice 基因 nanopits has 游離 effects on 幹細胞 cancer stemness 表現 expression. The 亦 was reproducible 一鱗狀 another cell 株 derived from 結論 cell carcinoma. 提供 We provided 顯示 evidence that 誘導癌 expression of 基因 stemness genes 過程 cancer cells 附 regulated by 奈米 of the 調控 surface. Further 與 is warranted 特性 analyze molecular 之間 between integrin 互動 and cancer 在 as well 生物 the implications 應用 cancer radiotherapy.
目的 To replace 取代 medical records, 歷為 constructed an 建構 Radiation Therapy 治療 Medical Record 病 system, and 與 it to 來 Radiation Oncology 供應商 Systems (ROIS) 質性 three independent 放射 in our 資訊系統 - ARIA/VARiS, 時 and Tomotherapy 治療 to acquire 與 treatment records. 醫療 addition, data 資料 between RTEMR 取得 Health Information 資料 (HIS) allowed 最新 to get 動向 basic data 最新 inpatient/outpatient status 進度 HIS, and 部門 personnel in 不 departments can 設備 the most 的 information about 與 progress, regardless 對 treatment unit. 進行 and Methods: 並召 analyzing the 各組 structure of 人員 and meeting 繼承 multidisciplinary staff 舊有 our department, 使用者 underwent development, 之 a successor 進行 our original 使用 standalone management 免安裝 The web-based 更新 of RTEMR 使用 several advantages: 進度 ease-of-update and 查詢 The system 治療 the real-time 參考點 progress in 劑量 of cumulative 醫師標 and fractions 處方 plans' reference 兩種 or physician 結果 target volume. 登入 RTEMR can 不同 different functions 另有 to user's 報到 identity. Self-serve 工作 system can 掌握 our staff 動態 keep track 治療 patients' current 病人 Patient lists 顯示 doctors and 是否 machine can 已 check-in status, 交班 status, and 事項 notes. Other 摘要 applications of 完成 are auto-generation 各式 radiation therapy 報表 summary and 的 routine reports 應用 administrative purpose. 增加 RTEMR can 治療 the efficiency 作業 decrease the 降低 of near 風險 in clinical 與 Further integration 資訊系統 health information 癌症 and cancer 緊密 system will 整合 the quality 提升 radiation therapy.
Purpose: 目的 replace paper 取代 records, we 歷為 an integrated 建構 Therapy Electronic 治療 Record (RTEMR) 病 and connected 與 to heterogeneous 來 Oncology Information 供應商 (ROIS) from 質性 independent vendors 放射 our department 資訊系統 ARIA/VARiS, MOSAIQ 時 Tomotherapy - 治療 acquire real-time 與 records. In 醫療 data exchange 資料 RTEMR and 取得 Information System 資料 allowed RTEMR 最新 get patients' 動向 data and 最新 status from 進度 and medical 部門 in other 不 can access 設備 most updated 的 about radiotherapy 與 regardless of 對 unit. Materials 進行 Methods: After 並召 the database 各組 of ROIS, 人員 meeting with 繼承 staff in 舊有 department, RTEMR 使用者 development, as 之 successor of 進行 original single-user 使用 management software. 免安裝 web-based interface 更新 RTEMR has 使用 advantages: installation-free, 進度 and cross-platform. 查詢 system provides 治療 real-time treatment 參考點 in terms 劑量 cumulative dose 醫師標 fractions to 處方 reference points 兩種 physician prescribed 結果 volume. Results: 登入 can display 不同 functions according 另有 user's login 報到 Self-serve checkin 工作 can help 掌握 staff to 動態 track of 治療 current state. 病人 lists for 顯示 and treatment 是否 can show 已 status, treatment 交班 and special 事項 Other important 摘要 of RTEMR 完成 auto-generation of 各式 therapy treatment 報表 and several 的 reports for 應用 purpose. Conclusion: 增加 can increase 治療 efficiency and 作業 the risk 降低 near miss 風險 clinical work. 與 integration with 資訊系統 information system 癌症 cancer information 緊密 will improve 整合 quality of 提升 therapy.
目的 While delivering 治療 beam to 會 head and 作 cancer patient, 部 thermoplastic mask 面具 used to 的 the position 往往 head and 臨床 region to 導航式 the reproducibility 治療 head and 影像 posture during 對 whole treatment 發現 However, the 與 of the 治療 is not 不同 according to 研究 of image 品管圈 in the 管理 treatment. In 合適 study, we 對策 to improve 患者 shoulder position 放射 of patients 之 radiotherapy for 位置 and neck 材料 by using 方法 plan-do-check-action (PDCA) 月 quality control 月 (QCC). Material 收集 Method: From 人次 2014 to 螺旋 2014 in 執行 Daily shoulder 病患 variation relative 斷層 treatment isocenter 回溯 quantified using 方式 bony alignment 治療 184 images 擺位 head and 位移 patients. Shoulder 為 variation was 之 with daily 並 scans from 月 MVCT scan. 月 January 1, 品管圈 to December 手法 2014, We 提升 of quality 患者 of the 治療 to improve 之 shoulder position 再 of patients 」 radiotherapy for 活動 and neck 兩側 Results: The 於 displacement less 率 5 mm 前 was 58.69% 提升 the beginning. 肩膀 rate of 於 5 mm 由 displacement was 前 after intervention. 至 shoulder less 性 10 mm 蹤 rate was 效果 The displacement 顯示 100% ＜10 持續 after intervention 於 improvement. It 因此 found that 此次 result of 改善 (PDCA) of 能 control circle 頭頸癌 could be 肩膀 after keeping 再 of the 運 displacement. Conclusion: 質 application of 能 control circle 發現 effectively identify 問題 improve the 問題 and solve 作業標 problem and 此次 establish of 之 Operating Procedures 製 The shoulder 適用 can be 不同 to different 拉 with hand-pull 長 and can 固定 quantified the 量化 position to 之 higher reproducibility 固定器 the head 病患 neck cancer 再 position.
Purpose: 目的 delivering radiation 治療 to a 會 and neck 作 patient, a 部 mask is 面具 to fix 的 position of 往往 and neck 臨床 to ensure 導航式 reproducibility of 治療 and neck 影像 during the 對 treatment process. 發現 the location 與 the shoulders 治療 not accurate 不同 to comparison 研究 image navigation 品管圈 the clinical 管理 In this 合適 we hoped 對策 improve the 患者 position reproducibility 放射 patients undergoing 之 for head 位置 neck cancer 材料 using the 方法 (PDCA) of 月 control circle 月 Material and 收集 From February 人次 to December 螺旋 in TomoTherapy. 執行 shoulder position 病患 relative to 斷層 isocenter was 回溯 using MVCT-based 方式 alignment for 治療 images with 擺位 and neck 位移 Shoulder position 為 was evaluated 之 daily CT 並 from an 月 scan. From 月 1, 2014 品管圈 December 31, 手法 We use 提升 quality control 患者 the way, 治療 improve the 之 position reproducibility 再 patients undergoing 」 for head 活動 neck cancer 兩側 The shoulder 於 less than 率 mm rate 前 58.69% at 提升 beginning. The 肩膀 of ＜ 於 mm shoulder 由 was 90% 前 intervention. The 至 less than 性 mm displacement 蹤 was 88.95%. 效果 displacement was 顯示 ＜10 mm 持續 intervention for 於 It was 因此 that the 此次 of plan-do-check-action 改善 of quality 能 circle (QCC) 頭頸癌 be maintained 肩膀 keeping track 再 the shoulder 運 Conclusion: The 質 of quality 能 circle can 發現 identify problems, 問題 the problem, 問題 solve the 作業標 and the 此次 of Standard 之 Procedures (SOP). 製 shoulder retractor 適用 be applied 不同 different patients 拉 hand-pull position, 長 can be 固定 the shoulder 量化 to achieve 之 reproducibility of 固定器 head and 病患 cancer shoulder 再
目的 The aim 為 this study 性 to compare 比較 positioning reproducibility 模具 α-cradle and 和 bag for 固定器 with hepatocellular 真空 via cone 對 computed tomography 肝癌 Safe margins 的 planning target 的 (PTV) were 效果 measured. Methods 計算出 Materials: From 靶 1, 2014 所 December 31, 的 CBCT data 範圍 68 patients 與 hepatocellular carcinoma 自 collected. For 月 positioning, α-cradle 年 used until 日止 2014. Vacuum 本科 with abdominal 收案 was used 的 October 2014. 肝癌 were imaged 在 treatment to 前 inter-fraction motion. 錐 mean (M), 電腦 deviation of 後 error (Σ) 位移 standard deviation 根據 random error 各軸 were used 數值 compare the 分析 reproducibility. Safe 平均 for PTV 系統 derived from 的 equation: 2.5Σ+0.7σ. 差 There were 隨機誤 patients in 標準 group and σ patients in 數值 bag group. 利用 overall means σ standard deviations 計畫 the X, 體積 and Z 需 in α-cradle 安全 and in 結果 bag group 與 0.4 ± 搭配 mm and 包組 ± 1.8 軸的 (p = 平均值 0.6 ± 標準 mm and 和 ±2.5 mm 和 = 0.52), 為 ± 2.0 在 and 0 固定器 1.5 mm 病人 = 0.15), 計畫 The PTV 體積 margins in 軸需 X, Y, 軸 Z axes 的 α-cradle group 範圍 5.7 mm, 使用 mm and 固定器 mm, respectively. 真空 PTV safe 病人 in the 計畫 Y, and 體積 axes of 軸需 bag group 軸 6.1 mm, 的 mm and 範圍 mm, respectively. 本 There was 結果 significant difference 兩種 positioning reproducibility 固定 α-cradle and 並無顯 bag. For 差異 with hepatocellular 於 the PTV 病人 margins in 計畫 X, Y, 體積 Z axes 軸需 7 mm, 軸 mm and 的 mm, respectively.
Purpose: 目的 aim of 為 study was 性 compare the 比較 reproducibility of 模具 and vacuum 和 for patients 固定器 hepatocellular carcinoma 真空 cone beam 對 tomography (CBCT). 肝癌 margins for 的 target volume 的 were also 效果 Methods and 計算出 From January 靶 2014 to 所 31, 2015, 的 data of 範圍 patients with 與 carcinoma were 自 For patient 月 α-cradle was 年 until October 日止 Vacuum bag 本科 abdominal compression 收案 used since 的 2014. Patients 肝癌 imaged before 在 to ascertain 前 motion. Overall 錐 (M), standard 電腦 of system 後 (Σ) and 位移 deviation of 根據 error (σ) 各軸 used to 數值 the positioning 分析 Safe margins 平均 PTV were 系統 from the 的 2.5Σ+0.7σ. Results: 差 were 35 隨機誤 in α-cradle 標準 and 33 σ in vacuum 數值 group. The 利用 means and σ deviations of 計畫 X, Y, 體積 Z axes 需 α-cradle group 安全 in vacuum 結果 group were 與 ± 1.8 搭配 and 0.3 包組 1.8 mm 軸的 = 0.82), 平均值 ± 2.6 標準 and 0.2 和 mm (p 和 0.52), -0.6 為 2.0 mm 在 0 ± 固定器 mm (p 病人 0.15), respectively. 計畫 PTV safe 體積 in the 軸需 Y, and 軸 axes of 的 group were 範圍 mm, 8.7 使用 and 6.8 固定器 respectively. The 真空 safe margins 病人 the X, 計畫 and Z 體積 of vacuum 軸需 group were 軸 mm, 9.3 的 and 5.4 範圍 respectively. Conclusions: 本 was no 結果 difference of 兩種 reproducibility between 固定 and vacuum 並無顯 For patients 差異 hepatocellular carcinoma, 於 PTV safe 病人 in the 計畫 Y, and 體積 axes were 軸需 mm, 10 軸 and 7 的 respectively.
目的 To evaluate 病患 effect of 的 errors in 治療 cancer patients 系統 breast irradiation 治療 Active Breathing 研究 system (ABC 呼吸 with deep 擷取 breath hold 閉氣 or free 電腦 (FB). Patients 兩者 Methods: We 方法 estimated set-up 呼吸 in ten 乳癌 cancer patients 分作 breast irradiation 治療 ABC system 影像 DIBH (DIBH) 調控 FB. Daily 吸氣 guided radiation 病患 (IGRT) would 狀態 practiced for 及 images in 模擬 during deep 組織 using ABC 狀態 and FB. 在 comparison with 病患 images in 誤 tissue windows 下 computed tomography 有 (CT-simulator), we 狀態 280 images 在 DIBH and 差值 respectively. Results: 下 were 3 無法區 during DIBH 病患 7 patients 下 FB having 自然 set-up errors 差值 the orientation 於 right to 誤 (R/L). In 狀態 orientation of 在 to inferior 自然 there were 差值 patients during 狀態 and 2 結論 during FB 深吸氣 significant set-up 自然 Ten patients 增加 during FB 深吸氣 significant set-up 每 in the 反而 of anterior 平均 posterior (A/P). 主動 ABC system 深吸氣 DIBH could 使用 the set-up 相較 in the 影像 of A/P, 且 not R/L 價值 S/I.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 病患 of set-up 的 in breast 治療 patients receiving 系統 irradiation using 治療 Breathing Coordinator 研究 (ABC system) 呼吸 deep inspiration 擷取 hold (DIBH) 閉氣 free breathing 電腦 Patients and 兩者 We retrospectively 方法 set-up errors 呼吸 ten breast 乳癌 patients receiving 分作 irradiation using 治療 system with 影像 (DIBH) or 調控 Daily image 吸氣 radiation therapy 病患 would be 狀態 for getting 及 in DIBH 模擬 deep inspiratory 組織 ABC system 狀態 FB. In 在 with initial 病患 in soft 誤 windows from 下 tomography simulator 有 we have 狀態 images in 在 and FB, 差值 Results: There 下 3 patients 無法區 DIBH and 病患 patients during 下 having significant 自然 errors in 差值 orientation of 於 to left 誤 In the 狀態 of superior 在 inferior (S/I), 自然 were 8 差值 during DIBH 狀態 2 patients 結論 FB having 深吸氣 set-up error. 自然 patients during 增加 FB having 深吸氣 set-up error 每 the orientation 反而 anterior to 平均 (A/P). Conclusions: 主動 system with 深吸氣 could reduced 使用 set-up errors 相較 the orientation 影像 A/P, but 且 R/L and 價值
乳房 Paget's disease 以外 is a 佩吉特 intraepithelial adenocarcinoma, 是 is most 罕見 seen in 表皮 rich in 多見 glands. About 汗腺 of extramammary 的 were observed 約 the vulva. 乳房 PD accounts 的 1% of 氏症 cancers. A 於 years old 陰部 patient suffered 而外 erythema, crusting, 佩吉特 increased maceration 約 the vulvar 外 for more 惡性 two years. 的 nodule about ２ cm in １ had also 的 noted at 於 time she 兩年 the dermatology 的 at our 飽受 The biopsy 陰部 the tumor 結痂 are positive 滲液 CK7, which 困擾 supportive for 本院 disease. In 科門 of her 也 age and 陰部 family support, 一顆 resection is 公分 feasible. She 的 referred to 經 radiation oncology 後 for radiotherapy. 為 initial treatment 氏症 was to 到 the focal 她 plus 2 及 margin with 的 electron to 決定 total dose 手術 50 Gy 而採 25 fractions. 治療 the treatment 以 early terminated 至少 20 Gy 次 to painful 劑量 III dermatitis. 因 search of 皮膚炎 alternative treatment, 於 imiquimod cream 中止 chosen due 改採 its relatively 治療 possible adverse 兩日塗 The cream 於 applied on 及其 lesions and 外加 to 2 之範圍 outside their 週後已 margins every 到 day. After 明顯縮 weeks of 後 cream treatment, 她 least partial 不便 had been 未 She lost 前來 follow-up after 治療 weeks of 僅維持 After repetitively 六個 her for 後 she showed 原本 6 months 結節 There were 消失 some suspicious 病灶 lesions although 均 previously noted 但 was completely 有 and most 紅 the patchy 塊 were remitted.
Extramammary 乳房 disease (PD) 以外 a rare 佩吉特 adenocarcinoma, which 是 most commonly 罕見 in areas 表皮 in apocrine 多見 About 60% 汗腺 extramammary PD 的 observed in 約 vulva. Vulvar 乳房 accounts for 的 of vulvar 氏症 A 95 於 old female 陰部 suffered from 而外 crusting, and 佩吉特 maceration over 約 vulvar area 外 more than 惡性 years. A 的 about 1 ２ in diameter １ also been 的 at the 於 she visited 兩年 dermatology department 的 our hospital. 飽受 biopsy showed 陰部 tumor cells 結痂 positive for 滲液 which is 困擾 for Paget’s 本院 In consideration 科門 her old 也 and poor 陰部 support, surgical 一顆 is not 公分 She was 的 to the 經 oncology department 後 radiotherapy. The 為 treatment plan 氏症 to irradiate 到 focal region 她 2 cm 及 with 6MeV 的 to a 決定 dose of 手術 Gy in 而採 fractions. However, 治療 treatment was 以 terminated at 至少 Gy due 次 painful grade 劑量 dermatitis. In 因 of appropriate 皮膚炎 treatment, 5% 於 cream was 中止 due to 改採 relatively mild 治療 adverse effects. 兩日塗 cream was 於 on the 及其 and up 外加 2 cm 之範圍 their visible 週後已 every other 到 After three 明顯縮 of topical 後 treatment, at 她 partial response 不便 been observed. 未 lost of 前來 after 5 治療 of treatment. 僅維持 repetitively calling 六個 for follow-up, 後 showed up 原本 months later. 結節 were still 消失 suspicious skin 病灶 although the 均 noted nodule 但 completely gone 有 most of 紅 patchy lesions 塊 remitted.
目的 : To 頭頸癌 the acute 接受 and treatment 放射 of tri-weekly 治療 cisplatin with 一次 low-dose cisplatin 量 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 每週 in head 低劑 neck cancer 鉑 Materials and 急性 : From 與 2014 to 度 2015, a 與 of 61 年 and neck 至 patients who 月 received CCRT 位 enrolled. All 研究 received intensity-modulated 之頭 therapy (IMRT) 病患 60-70 Gy 同步 6 to 治療 weeks to 療分 target region. 三週 chemotherapy consisted 高劑 either tri-weekly ^ 100 mg/m^2 組 Q3W, n= 或 or weekly 一次 30 mg/m^2 量 QW, n= 簡稱 The primary 例 was acute 接受 during CCRT. 的 secondary endpoints 放射 the accumulative 針對 dose, cisplatin 給予 intensity, and 週 treatment period 治療 radiotherapy. Results 急性 The baseline 能 characteristics of 的 studies were 順 between both 平均 Patients who 劑量 P100 Q3W 及 had a 總 rate of 長 3/4 leucopenia 結果 vs. 3.3%, 病人 0.014) than 似 who received 計顯 QW. Other 組 3/4 toxicities 有 similar in 高 arms, including 之三 (16.1% vs. 低下 p= 0.095), 其他 (0% vs. 四級 p= 0.311), 反應 (0% vs. 包含 p= 1.000), 中性 (35.5% vs. 降低 p= 0.300) 貧血 skin reaction 血小板 vs. 10.0%, 口腔 0.073). There . no Gr 皮膚 serum creatinine . in either 也 however more 較 grade (Gr 比例 creatinine elevation 二級 observed in . who received 病人 Q3W (41.9% 接受 16.7%, p= 順 The mean 劑量 cisplatin dose 組 in the ^ Q3W group 平均 the P30 鉑 group was 為 ± 47.7 組 and 181.0 ^ 38.9 mg/m^2 完成 0.001), respectively. 需 mean dose 時間 in P100 沒有 group was 天 ± 2.9 結論 and 28.4 接受 2.6 mg/m^2/week 放射 the P30 治療 group (p= 採用 The mean 高劑 treatment period 順 radiotherapy was 比 in both 一週 (50.0 vs. 量 days, p= 鉑 Conclusion : 給予 P100 Q3W 高順 delivered a 累積 higher accumulative 但 dose than 伴 P30 QW, 較 had a 四級 incidence of 嗜 leucopenia/ neutropenia 球 with a 和 degree of 二級 creatinine elevation.
Purpose 目的 To compare 頭頸癌 acute toxicity 接受 treatment compliance 放射 tri-weekly highdose 治療 with weekly 一次 cisplatin during 量 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) 每週 head and 低劑 cancer patients. 鉑 and Methods 急性 From October 與 to December 度 a total 與 61 head 年 neck cancer 至 who had 月 CCRT were 位 All patients 研究 intensity-modulated radiation 之頭 (IMRT) with 病患 Gy in 同步 to 7 治療 to the 療分 region. Concurrent 三週 consisted of 高劑 tri-weekly cisplatin ^ mg/m^2 (P100 組 n= 31) 或 weekly cisplatin 一次 mg/m^2 (P30 量 n= 30). 簡稱 primary endpoint 例 acute toxicity 接受 CCRT. The 的 endpoints were 放射 accumulative cisplatin 針對 cisplatin dose 給予 and overall 週 period of 治療 Results : 急性 baseline patient 能 of both 的 were similar 順 both arms. 平均 who received 劑量 Q3W group 及 a higher 總 of Gr 長 leucopenia (25.8% 結果 3.3%, p= 病人 than those 似 received P30 計顯 Other Gr 組 toxicities were 有 in both 高 including neutropenia 之三 vs. 3.3%, 低下 0.095), anemia 其他 vs. 3.3%, 四級 0.311), thrombocytopenia 反應 vs. 0%, 包含 1.000), mucositis 中性 vs. 23.3%, 降低 0.300) and 貧血 reaction (0% 血小板 10.0%, p= 口腔 There was . Gr 3/4 皮膚 creatinine elevation . either arm, 也 more mild 較 (Gr 1/2) 比例 elevation was 二級 in patients . received P100 病人 (41.9% vs. 接受 p= 0.032). 順 mean accumulative 劑量 dose delivery 組 the P100 ^ group and 平均 P30 QW 鉑 was 219.4 為 47.7 mg/m^2 組 181.0 ± ^ mg/m^2 (p= 完成 respectively. The 需 dose intensity 時間 P100 Q3W 沒有 was 30.9 天 2.9 mg/m2/week, 結論 28.4 ± 接受 mg/m^2/week in 放射 P30 QW 治療 (p= 0.001). 採用 mean overall 高劑 period of 順 was similar 比 both groups 一週 vs. 49.0 量 p= 0.424). 鉑 : The 給予 Q3W schedule 高順 a significantly 累積 accumulative cisplatin 但 than the 伴 QW, but 較 a higher 四級 of severe 嗜 neutropenia along 球 a mild 和 of serum 二級 elevation.
目的 We aim 本院 review treatment 淋巴癌 at our 並釐清預 and evaluate 因子 factors that 存活 overall survival, 與 and local 控制 Material and 材料 We conducted 我們 retrospective chart 年 of all 之 with NK/T-cell 淋巴癌 treated from 一 at our 性病 Patients must 病人 received at 本院 one line 的 therapy. Baseline 我們 and treatment 歷資料 were extracted 病人 medical records. 資訊 employed the 記錄 product limit 與 to estimate 成果 recurrence-free survival 方面 progression-free survival 法 and overall 存活 (OS). Cox 進展 hazards models 無 used to 復 significance of 並以 factors on 風險 outcomes. Results: 因子 total of 成果 patients were 差異 of which 總計 (57%) were 病人 I-II, while 分期 other 9 第 were stage 第 Median overall 病人 for all 位 was 2 為 Median survival 病人 significantly longer 存活 stage I-II 顯著 years) than 病人 IV (2.5 月 In early 早期 patients, the 淋巴癌 Killer/T-Cell Lymphoma 整體 Index (NKPI) 顯著 associated with 有 survival; patients 侵犯 clinically positive 其 nodes had 復 trend towards 機率 risk of 低 recurrence (P= 結論 HR= 0.17). 過去 Treatment outcomes 相仿 NK/T-cell lymphoma 的 an aggressive 相當 and poor 預後不 comparable with 提高 in the 成效 Identification of 策略 subgroups and 找出 treatment with 族群 chemotherapeutic agents, 較 radiotherapy dose 化學 may be 或 to improve 線劑 outcomes.
Purpose: 目的 aim to 本院 treatment outcomes 淋巴癌 our institution 並釐清預 evaluate prognostic 因子 that influence 存活 survival, progression, 與 local recurrence. 控制 and Methods: 材料 conducted a 我們 chart review 年 all patients 之 NK/T-cell lymphoma 淋巴癌 from 2000-2014 一 our institution. 性病 must have 病人 at least 本院 line of 的 Baseline characteristics 我們 treatment information 歷資料 extracted from 病人 records. We 資訊 the Kaplan-Meier 記錄 limit method 與 estimate loco-regional 成果 survival (LRFS), 方面 survival (PFS) 法 overall survival 存活 Cox proportional 進展 models were 無 to assess 復 of prognostic 並以 on treatment 風險 Results: A 因子 of 21 成果 were included, 差異 which 12 總計 were stage 病人 while the 分期 9 (43%) 第 stage IV. 第 overall survival 病人 all patients 位 2 years. 為 survival was 病人 longer for 存活 I-II (3.8 顯著 than stage 病人 (2.5 months). 月 early stage 早期 the Natural 淋巴癌 Lymphoma Prognostic 整體 (NKPI) was 顯著 with overall 有 patients with 侵犯 positive lymph 其 had a 復 towards lower 機率 of local 低 (P= 0.05, 結論 0.17). Conclusions: 過去 outcomes of 相仿 lymphoma suggest 的 aggressive pattern 相當 poor outcome, 預後不 with reports 提高 the literature. 成效 of high-risk 策略 and aggressive 找出 with modern 族群 agents, and/or 較 dose escalation 化學 be warranted 或 improve treatment 線劑
目的 To evaluate 蟹 cancer risk 罹患 keloid patients 的 the risk 此 radiation-associated malignancy 接受 keloid patients 後 received radiotherapyy 致癌 in a 與 study. Materials 使用 Methods: Patients 蒐集 newly diagnosed 至 who were 新 20 years 之蟹 above and 病患 no antecedent 為 between 1997 以上 2011 were 去 from Taiwan 診斷 Health Insurance 準化 Database. We 評估 standardized incidence 足腫 (SIRs) to 癌症 the cancer 同時 for keloid 使用 and also 線 the subgroup 足腫 patients who 罹癌 RT for 結果 Results: A 總共 of 18,646 了 patients were 病患 During a 蹤 follow-up time 為 5.6 years, 共有 patients developed 罹患 The overall 蟹 of cancer 之全 slightly increased 標準化 keloid cohort 稍 1.12, 95% 於 interval [CI] 信賴區 p= 0.049), 特別 in women 女性 1.22, 95% 間 1.06-1.40, p= 癌症 For specific 足腫 type, the 骨骼 of bone 組織 soft tissue 顯著 was significantly 信賴區 (SIR 3.84, 在 CI 1.99-6.71, 蟹 0.001). In 中 keloid cohort, 接受 22 (0.12%) 治療 received RT 過少 keloid treatment. 無法 cancer risk 評估 this subgroup 罹癌 2.34, 95% 蟹 0.28-8.46) cannot 病患 estimated precisely 一般 a consequence 有 lack of 的 Conclusion: Keloids 風險 be associated 骨骼 an elevated 組織 risk, especially 足腫 bone and 接受 tissue sarcoma. 治療 risk of 人數 cancers cannot 無法進 estimated because 評估 number of 引起 patients who 癌症 RT is 也 however, it 目前 that RT 放射 be underused 於 treatment of 治療 in Taiwan.
Background: 目的 evaluate the 蟹 risk in 罹患 patients and 的 risk of 此 malignancy in 接受 patients who 後 radiotherapyy (RT) 致癌 a population-based 與 Materials and 使用 Patients with 蒐集 diagnosed keloid 至 were aged 新 years or 之蟹 and had 病患 antecedent cancers 為 1997 and 以上 were recruited 去 Taiwan National 診斷 Insurance Research 準化 We used 評估 incidence ratios 足腫 to calculate 癌症 cancer incidence 同時 keloid patients 使用 also for 線 subgroup of 足腫 who received 罹癌 for keloid. 結果 A total 總共 18,646 keloid 了 were enrolled. 病患 a median 蹤 time of 為 years, 338 共有 developed cancers. 罹患 overall risk 蟹 cancer was 之全 increased in 標準化 cohort (SIR 稍 95% confidence 於 [CI] 1.00-1.24, 信賴區 0.049), especially 特別 women (SIR 女性 95% CI 間 p= 0.006). 癌症 specific cancer 足腫 the risk 骨骼 bone and 組織 tissue sarcoma 顯著 significantly elevated 信賴區 3.84, 95% 在 1.99-6.71, p＜ 蟹 In the 中 cohort, only 接受 (0.12%) patients 治療 RT for 過少 treatment. The 無法 risk in 評估 subgroup (SIR 罹癌 95% CI 蟹 cannot be 病患 precisely as 一般 consequence of 有 of power. 的 Keloids may 風險 associated with 骨骼 elevated cancer 組織 especially for 足腫 and soft 接受 sarcoma. The 治療 of radiation-induced 人數 cannot be 無法進 because the 評估 of keloid 引起 who received 癌症 is scarce; 也 it implies 目前 RT might 放射 underused for 於 of keloids 治療 Taiwan.
目的 An online 服務 is the 是 simple and 有效 way to 呈 information to 因此 Therefore, we 了 developed a 資訊系統 interface for 介面 MOSAIQ Radiation 使用 Information System, 就 MQweb. Users 這個 need to 即 a web 病患 to obtain 材料 patient radiotherapy 利用 via the 碼 Materials and 軟體 We built 網頁 web server 網頁 an open-source 執行 software package. 直接 PHP programs 資料 on the 查詢 server were 查詢 directly to 後 MOSAIQ database, 在 retrieved the 瀏覽器 using the 兩個 Query Language 執行 and then 程式 the data 說明 the client’s 顯示 browser. Results: 病患 provided two 治療 source code 部位 of how 當日 display the 治療 site summary 名單 the radiotherapy 可以 Consequently, readers 的 fully reproduce 結論 results of 可以 study. Conclusion: 簡單 staff can 容易 the user-friendly 的 easy-to-customize MQweb 介面 obtain important 庫 information such 部位 dose, site 重要 schedule from 治療 MOSAIQ database, 地針 easily with 資訊 patient, and 提升 productivity.
Purpose: 目的 online site 服務 the most 是 and effective 有效 to present 呈 to users. 因此 we have 了 a web 資訊系統 for the 介面 Radiation Oncology 使用 System, the 就 Users just 這個 to use 即 web browser 病患 obtain real-time 材料 radiotherapy information 利用 the MQweb. 碼 and Methods: 軟體 built a 網頁 server using 網頁 open-source free 執行 package. The 直接 programs executed 資料 the web 查詢 were connected 查詢 to the 後 database, and 在 the data 瀏覽器 the Structured 兩個 Language (SQL), 執行 then displayed 程式 data in 說明 client’s web 顯示 Results: We 病患 two complete 治療 code examples 部位 how to 當日 the dose 治療 summary and 名單 radiotherapy schedule. 可以 readers can 的 reproduce the 結論 of our 可以 Conclusion: Medical 簡單 can access 容易 user-friendly and 的 MQweb to 介面 important radiotherapy 庫 such as 部位 site and 重要 from the 治療 database, communicate 地針 with the 資訊 and improve 提升
目的 There remains 對 whether utilization 射束 4-dimensional cone-beam 斷層 tomography (4D-CBCT) 乳癌 additional benefit 治療 electronic portal 相較 (EPI) in 傳統 radiotherapy. The 驗證 goal of 是否 study was 更 compare the 的 between EPI 不 4D-CBCT in 本 setup errors 目的 breast cancer 較 The secondary 射束 was to 與 the relationship 電子式 patient-related factors 於 setup errors. 擺位 & Methods: 及 prospective study 差 a total 次要 17 post-operative 為 cancer patients 病人 conducted between 因子 2013 and 擺位 2016. All 是否 received two 的 of image-guided 與 EPI and 自西元 before each 研究 in the 位 ten fractions 後 radiation. The 患者 in left-right 於頭 superior-inferior (SI) 放射 anterior-posterior (AP) 接受 under different 影像 techniques were 四維錐狀 by physicians 電腦 Group systematic 影像 and random 技術 (σ) for 醫師 axis of 兩種 and 4D-CBCT 導引 calculated. The 所 PTV margins 的 computed based 包含 van Herk's 頭腳 Differences in 後 positioning errors 並依據 examined using 計算出 singed-ranks test 影像 compare the 下 between EPI 之 4D-CBCT. The 系統 U-test was 差 to distinguish 隨機誤 significance between 理想 setup errors 邊界 the following 公式 factors: age, 進 weight, BMI, 比 of breast 電子式 and the 與 ratio of 射束 anterior-posterior to 這兩種 diameter measured 技術 simulation images. 得 The total 軸的系 images were 隨機誤 EPIs and 是否 4D-CBCTs. The 上 (mm) and 同時 deviation (mm) 病人 setup errors 對 EPI and 誤差 were -0.24 結果 0.73 and 研究 ± 1.17 組電子式驗 LR direction; 影像 ± 1.40 射束 1.54 ± 斷層 in SI 影像 0.27 ± 與 and -0.15 電腦 1.32 in 的 direction, respectively. 平均值 systemic (Σ) 分別 random errors 左右 for 4D-CBCT 方向 1.17 mm, 後 1.32 mm 發現 σ_(LR)= 1.32 的 σ_(AP)= 1.49 於 and EPI 及前 0.73 mm, 均 1.10 mm 顯著 σ_(LR)= 1.15 兩者 σ_(AP)= 1.57 方向 were not 統誤 difference in 顯著 LR and ; directions. In 導引 SI direction, 所 systemic setup 最佳 were significantly 靶體 between EPI 是 4D-CBCT (1.40 方向 vs. 1.78 前 p= 0.005). 方向 calculated PTV 頭腳 (mm) measured 前 EPI and 經過 were 2.63 沒有 3.85 in 病人 direction; 6.09 因子 6.68 in 誤差 direction; 3.85 聯性 4.34 in 此 direction, respectively. 若 of the 電子式 factors have 作為 influence on 術 setup errors. 治療 : This 影像 found that 四維錐狀 would significantly 電腦 the setup 需特別 in the 電子式 direction compared 明顯 4D-CBCT, which 頭腳 generates a 系統 PTV margin 其 van Herk's 各軸向 Thus we 出 be careful 計畫 using EPI 均 correction of 窄 setup errors 建議 the SI 實務上 of breast 四維錐狀 patients. We 電腦 applying the 計算出 PTV margins 最佳 from the 積邊界 method for 適當 application.
Purpose: 目的 remains uncertainty 對 utilization of 射束 cone-beam computerized 斷層 (4D-CBCT) has 乳癌 benefit over 治療 portal image 相較 in breast 傳統 The primary 驗證 of this 是否 was to 更 the differences 的 EPI and 不 in evaluating 本 errors for 目的 cancer patients. 較 secondary aim 射束 to assess 與 relationship between 電子式 factors and 於 errors. Materials 擺位 Methods: A 及 study with 差 total of 次要 post-operative breast 為 patients was 病人 between July 因子 and May 擺位 All patients 是否 two kinds 的 image-guided methods, 與 and 4D-CBCT, 自西元 each treatment 研究 the first 位 fractions of 後 The translations 患者 left-right (LR), 於頭 (SI) and 放射 (AP) directions 接受 different image-guided 影像 were measured 四維錐狀 physicians on-line. 電腦 systematic (Σ) 影像 random errors 技術 for each 醫師 of EPI 兩種 4D-CBCT were 導引 The optimal 所 margins were 的 based on 包含 Herk's formula. 頭腳 in daily 後 errors were 並依據 using Wilcoxon 計算出 test to 影像 the results 下 EPI and 之 The Mann-Whitney 系統 was used 差 distinguish the 隨機誤 between the 理想 errors and 邊界 following patient-related 公式 age, height, 進 BMI, laterality 比 breast cancer 電子式 the chest 與 of maximal 射束 to lateral 這兩種 measured from 技術 images. Results: 得 total serial 軸的系 were 170 隨機誤 and 170 是否 The mean 上 and standard 同時 (mm) of 病人 errors of 對 and 4D-CBCT 誤差 -0.24 ± 結果 and 0.02 研究 1.17 in 組電子式驗 direction; 0.75 影像 1.40 and 射束 ± 1.78 斷層 SI direction; 影像 ± 1.10 與 -0.15 ± 電腦 in AP 的 respectively. The 平均值 (Σ) and 分別 errors (σ) 左右 4D-CBCT (Σ_(LR)= 方向 mm, Σ_(AP)= 後 mm and 發現 1.32 mm, 的 1.49 mm) 於 EPI (Σ_(LR)= 及前 mm, Σ_(AP)= 均 mm and 顯著 1.15 mm, 兩者 1.57 mm) 方向 not significant 統誤 in the 顯著 and AP ; In the 導引 direction, the 所 setup errors 最佳 significantly different 靶體 EPI vs. 是 (1.40 mm 方向 1.78 mm; 前 0.005). The 方向 PTV margins 頭腳 measured by 前 and 4D-CBCT 經過 2.63 and 沒有 in LR 病人 6.09 and 因子 in SI 誤差 3.85 and 聯性 in AP 此 respectively. None 若 the patient-related 電子式 have conclusive 作為 on these 術 errors. Conclusion 治療 This study 影像 that EPI 四維錐狀 significantly underestimate 電腦 setup errors 需特別 the SI 電子式 compared to 明顯 which in-turn 頭腳 a narrower 系統 margin by 其 Herk's formula. 各軸向 we should 出 careful when 計畫 EPI for 均 of inter-fraction 窄 errors in 建議 SI direction 實務上 breast cancer 四維錐狀 We suggest 電腦 the optimal 計算出 margins calculated 最佳 the 4D-CBCT 積邊界 for clinical 適當
目的 : To 研究 the correlation 斷層 body mass 在 (BMI) and 呼吸 tumor motion, 斷層 waist circumference 收集 respiration-induced tumor 和 by using 質量 respiratory phases 分析 four dimensional 於 tomography (4D-CT) 位移 and Methods 影響 Ten patients 與 primary lung 位原 or metastatic 肺癌 lesion, and 轉移 patients with 或 hepatic cancer 轉移 metastatic hepatic 病人 who received 腹圍 (RT) during 病患 2014 to 一組 2015 were 的 in this 掃描 Data of 一組 and waist 最大 for each 影像 were collected. 影像 from free 界定 CT scans _ MIP images 和 4D-CT scans ( obtained for 兩者 patient and 體積 for delineating _ and CTV_(MIP), ) We calculated ( percentage of 為 difference (V_(diff)) 呼吸 CTV_(NB) and 腫瘤 Linear regression 指標 between V_(diff) 使用 BMI, and 進行 and waist 歸 were performed 對 using Statistical 腫瘤 for Social 說 (SPSS) 19 ) Inc., Chicago, 腹圍 . Results 無相 For patients 腫瘤 pulmonary tumor, 發現 was no ( between V_(diff) 呈 BMI, and 而 V_(diff) and 無 circumference. For 是 with hepatic 於 our study 位移 a significant 的 between V_(diff) 結論 BMI, but 腹圍 correlation between 腫瘤 and waist 病人 According to 位移 correlation analysis 但 our study, 肝臟 was a 病人 influencing the 關性 of respiration-induced 的 tumor motion. 在 : Our 的 showed that 和 was a ( correlation between 呈現 and BMI 係 patients with ( tumor. We 越低 that the 係 V_(diff) for 肝臟 with hepatic 位 and high 橫隔 was caused 膈膜 the tumor 會 which near 病人 diaphragm, and 影響 magnitude of 人 motion was 隔膜 influenced by 較 BMI. Therefore, 臨 could design 病人 treatment techniques 來 breathing control 的 to the 及 of the patient.
Purpose 目的 To analyze 研究 correlation between 斷層 mass index 在 and respiration-induced 呼吸 motion, and 斷層 circumference and 收集 tumor motion 和 using different 質量 phases from 分析 dimensional computed 於 (4D-CT) Materials 位移 Methods : 影響 patients with 與 lung cancer 位原 metastatic lung 肺癌 and eight 轉移 with primary 或 cancer or 轉移 hepatic lesion 病人 received radiotherapy 腹圍 during Dec. 病患 to Nov. 一組 were included 的 this study. 掃描 of BMI 一組 waist circumference 最大 each patient 影像 collected. Images 影像 free breathing 界定 scans and _ images from 和 scans were ( for each 兩者 and used 體積 delineating CTV_(NB) _ CTV_(MIP), respectively. ) calculated the ( of volume 為 (V_(diff)) between 呼吸 and CTV_(MIP). 腫瘤 regression analysis 指標 V_(diff) and 使用 and V_(diff) 進行 waist circumference 歸 performed by 對 Statistical Package 腫瘤 Social Sciences 說 19 (SPSS ) Chicago, IL) 腹圍 Results : 無相 patients with 腫瘤 tumor, there 發現 no correlation ( V_(diff) and 呈 and between 而 and waist 無 For patients 是 hepatic tumor, 於 study showed 位移 significant correlation 的 V_(diff) and 結論 but no 腹圍 between V_(diff) 腫瘤 waist circumference. 病人 to the 位移 analysis in 但 study, BMI 肝臟 a factor 病人 the magnitude 關性 respiration-induced hepatic 的 motion. Conclusion 在 Our study 的 that there 和 a significant ( between V_(diff) 呈現 BMI for 係 with hepatic ( We speculate 越低 the small 係 for patients 肝臟 hepatic tumor 位 high BMI 橫隔 caused by 膈膜 tumor location 會 near the 病人 and the 影響 of diaphragm 人 was easily 隔膜 by the 較 Therefore, we 臨 design appropriate 病人 techniques for 來 control according 的 the BMI 及 the patient.
目的 : Helical 斷層 (HT) is 為 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 進式 (IMRT) delivery 強度 that achieves 治療 dose conformality 藉由 multileaf collimator 準直儀 during treatment. 床 goal of 連續 study was 到 evaluate the 順型 quality and 劑量 accuracy of 本實驗 Hi-Art system 目的 different plan 腫瘤 for the 不同 of hepatocellular 阻擋 Materials and 的 A total 計劃 10 cases 較 analyzed in 劑量驗 study. Three 確度 treatments plans 材料 generated for 方法 case in 是 setting of 回溯 block, directional 的 and complete 位肝 respectively to 病人 treat the 影像 target volume 執行 spare the 計劃 at risk. 分別 delivery quality 及 (DQA) is 射束 essential task 的 ensure the 以保護 of doses 器官 to the 計劃 The absolute 使用 dose was 測絕 with an 劑量 A1SL ion 底片 and Tomoelectrometer 做 Imaging, Middleton, 劑量 which can 結果 positioned anywhere 計劃 the central 沒有 of the 任何 and Gafchromic 的 films were 計劃 in the 提供 orientation to 計劃 the planar 體積 of dose 量 The measurements 與 analyzed using 勻度 gamma evaluation 平均 the 3% 單位 and 3 依序 distance criteria. 平均 The results 時間 that without 正常 was capable 的 providing more 其他 target doses. 危急 conformation number 胃 homogeneity index 腎臟 plans without 脊椎 were better 都 directional block 低 complete block. 劑量 average MUs 計劃驗證 3338.1, 3871.7, 在 MU, and 皆 delivery times 的 237.3, 273.6, 內 seconds respectively. 劑量 V_5 values 伽 the normal 率 was 81.8%, 為 57.5%. All 使用 the cases 能 the 3% 不錯 dose difference 劑量 The 3% 與 3 mm 均 gamma passing 顯著 was 96.7 減少 2.2%, 95.8 所 2.8%, 94.6 到 3.8% for 劑量 block, directional 增加 and complete 比例 respectively. Conclusions: 增加 results of 於 study had 的 that the 增加 types of 多 can be 驗證 accurately based 結果 their own 在 standards. The 與 advantage of 劑量 block is 與 reduce the 計劃 dose region 結果 normal liver 很 just increased 對 15% of 肝炎 time. The 肝 block can 的 a good 一個 to the 的 patients with chronic hepatitis.
Purpose 目的 Helical tomotherapy 斷層 is a 為 radiotherapy treatment 進式 delivery system 強度 achieves high 治療 conformality by 藉由 collimator motion 準直儀 treatment. The 床 of this 連續 was to 到 the plan 順型 and delivery 劑量 of the 本實驗 system with 目的 plan parameters 腫瘤 the treatment 不同 hepatocellular carcinoma. 阻擋 and Methods: 的 total of 計劃 cases were 較 in this 劑量驗 Three HT 確度 plans were 材料 for each 方法 in the 是 of without 回溯 directional block 的 complete block 位肝 to adequately 病人 the planning 影像 volume and 執行 the organ 計劃 risk. Patient 分別 quality assurance 及 is an 射束 task to 的 the accuracy 以保護 doses delivered 器官 the patients. 計劃 absolute point 使用 was measured 測絕 an Exradin 劑量 ion chamber 底片 Tomoelectrometer (Standard 做 Middleton, WI) 劑量 can be 結果 anywhere along 計劃 central axis 沒有 the phantom, 任何 Gafchromic EBT3 的 were placed 計劃 the coronal 提供 to acquire 計劃 planar representations 體積 dose distribution. 量 measurements were 與 using the 勻度 evaluation with 平均 3% dose 單位 3 mm 依序 criteria. Results: 平均 results demonstrate 時間 without block 正常 capable of 的 more uniform 其他 doses. The 危急 number and 胃 index of 腎臟 without block 脊椎 better than 都 block and 低 block. The 劑量 MUs was 計劃驗證 3871.7, 4761.4 在 and the 皆 times was 的 273.6, 334.3 內 respectively. The 劑量 values for 伽 normal liver 率 81.8%, 71.8%, 為 All of 使用 cases passed 能 3% point 不錯 difference criteria. 劑量 3% / 與 mm average 均 passing rate 顯著 96.7 ± 減少 95.8 ± 所 94.6 ± 到 for without 劑量 directional block 增加 complete block 比例 Conclusions: The 增加 of this 於 had demonstrated 的 the three 增加 of plans 多 be delivered 驗證 based on 結果 own QA 在 The major 與 of directional 劑量 is to 與 the low 計劃 region of 結果 liver and 很 increased approximately 對 of delivery 肝炎 The directional 肝 can provide 的 good choice 一個 the HCC 的 with chronic hepatitis.
原發性 gliosarcoma (GS) 膠質 a rare 中樞神 tumor of 的 central nervous 腫瘤 (CNS), and 一種 unique entity 高度 high-grade glioma, 膠質瘤 of both 擁有 glial and 膠質 differentiations. The 肉瘤 WHO classification 年 central nervous 衛生 classified GS 中樞神 a grade 分類 astrocytic neoplasm 歸類 a variant 母細胞瘤 glioblastoma. Due 亞型 the rarity 第四 GS, the 的 therapy is 由 well defined, 罕見 the clinical 療法 for GS 不明 usually in 臨床 with glioblastoma 多 by the 膠質 of maximal 治療 resection followed 最大 chemo-radiotherapy with 手術 This report 搭配 three rare 併 confirmed cases 治療 GS in 了 hospital and 經由 the distinct 的 features, treatment 分析 with more 治療 on radiotherapy, 放射 their outcome. 療效 our three 有 patients, two 男性 and one 女性 with a 年齡 age of 腫瘤 the main 發生 all occurred 上區域 the supra-tentorial 有 Two cases 經系 presented with 對側 metastasis to 其他 cerebral lobes, 一例 one case 診斷 widespread leptomeninges 有 initial diagnosis. 腦脊 metastasis is 轉移 exhibited in 發生 lungs and 和 during the 顱外 course. All 所有 received postoperative 接受 therapy with 或 fractionation or 次高劑 regimen. The 術 radiation dose 放射 the involved 目標 tumor bed 的 target volume) 放射 50 - 到 Gy (range 範圍 to 59.4 的 Our results 結果 the role 後 local radiotherapy 可以 surgery, and 腦腫瘤 local control 或 can be 效果 or palliated 明顯 obvious side 放療 Our cases 病例 8 to 至 months with 月 median survival 個 17 months. 由 highlight the 獨特 clinical features 和 GS, we 值得 a literature 在 of the 台灣 clinical case 的 of GS 文獻 in Taiwan 整理 the world using Medline.
Primary 原發性 (GS) is 膠質 rare primary 中樞神 of the 的 nervous system 腫瘤 and a 一種 entity among 高度 glioma, composed 膠質瘤 both malignant 擁有 and sarcomatous 膠質 The 2016 肉瘤 classification of 年 nervous tumors 衛生 GS as 中樞神 grade IV 分類 neoplasm and 歸類 variant of 母細胞瘤 Due to 亞型 rarity of 第四 the optimal 的 is not 由 defined, and 罕見 clinical therapies 療法 GS are 不明 in accordance 臨床 glioblastoma guidelines 多 the mode 膠質 maximal surgical 治療 followed by 最大 with temozolomide. 手術 report describes 搭配 rare pathologically 併 cases of 治療 in our 了 and analyzes 經由 distinct clinical 的 treatment course 分析 more focus 治療 radiotherapy, and 放射 outcome. In 療效 three GS 有 two males 男性 one female 女性 a median 年齡 of 61, 腫瘤 main tumors 發生 occurred in 上區域 supra-tentorial brain. 有 cases are 經系 with CNS 對側 to different 其他 lobes, and 一例 case with 診斷 leptomeninges at 有 diagnosis. Extra-cranial 腦脊 is also 轉移 in the 發生 and pleura 和 the clinical 顱外 All patients 所有 postoperative radiation 接受 with conventional 或 or hypofractionation 次高劑 The total 術 dose to 放射 involved brain 目標 bed (planning 的 volume) reached 放射 - 60 到 (range 50.4 範圍 59.4 Gy). 的 results support 結果 role of 後 radiotherapy after 可以 and the 腦腫瘤 control effect 或 be achieved 效果 palliated without 明顯 side effects. 放療 cases survived 病例 to 23 至 with a 月 survival of 個 months. To 由 the unique 獨特 features of 和 we conduct 值得 literature review 在 the reported 台灣 case series 的 GS patients 文獻 Taiwan and 整理 world using Medline.
外耳道 cell carcinoma 上皮 of the 是 auditory canal 的 is a 其源 malignancy which 外耳 from the 周遭 ear and 其發 to surrounding 估計 The incidence 萬 been estimated 中有 between 1 六人 6 cases 的 million in 鱗狀 general population. 癌則 bilateral external 極為 canal squamous 因為 carcinoma is 的 extremely rare 至今 Due to 於 extreme rarity 致病 bilateral external 仍 canal SCC, 完全 is still 已 lack of 幾個 research of 因子 pathogenesis; however, 來 variety of 我們 factors have 報告 described. We 患有 the case 雙側 a female 上皮 had metachronous 的 SCC of 在手 treated by 後 excision followed 以術 adjuvant radiotherapy 放射 To our 的 this case 這是 the first 第一 SCC of 外耳道 external auditory 上皮 reported in 案例 hospital.
Squamous 外耳道 carcinoma (SCC) 上皮 the external 是 canal (EAC) 的 a rare 其源 which arises 外耳 the external 周遭 and invades 其發 surrounding tissues. 估計 incidence has 萬 estimated at 中有 1 and 六人 cases per 的 in the 鱗狀 population. Furthermore, 癌則 external auditory 極為 squamous cell 因為 is an 的 rare disease. 至今 to the 於 rarity of 致病 external auditory 仍 SCC, there 完全 still a 已 of complete 幾個 of its 因子 however, a 來 of predisposing 我們 have been 報告 We report 患有 case of 雙側 female who 上皮 metachronous bilateral 的 of EAC 在手 by surgical 後 followed by 以術 radiotherapy (RT). 放射 our knowledge, 的 case is 這是 first bilateral 第一 of the 外耳道 auditory canal 上皮 in our 案例
目的 : The 篇文章 of this 在 is to 電腦 the safety, 線 and side 於 encountered in 三叉 refractory trigeminal 安全性 (TN) using 副作用 CyberKnife radiosurgery 與 Materials and 年 : Between 年 2009 and 有 2014, 22 典型 with classical 的 refractory to 於 medical or 藥物 treatments, received 治療 at our 在 center. The 電腦 dose of 接受 (range: 60-65 刀 was delivered 手術 the involved 範圍 nerve root 三叉 zone with 幹距離 3-mm gap 地方 the brainstem. 在 dose to 劑量 brainstem was 在 to 50% 的 the maximum 小 or no 的 than 40 詢問 Treatment outcomes 門診 assessed through 蹤 inquiries and 估 follow-up visits. 反應則 responses were 有 in a 疼痛 questionnaire containing 分數 Barrow Neurologic 來 (BNI) pain 追 and facial 時 score. Results 中 The median 是 of follow-up 全部 36 months. 對 patients responded 刀 CKRS, as 手術 by an 效果 in their 他們 pain scores. 的 time to 疼痛 onset of 的 relief was 數是 days, and 最大 maximal pain 時間 was 2 個 At the 最 follow-up, 13 蹤 (59%) were 時 from any 個 (BNI I); 沒有 patients (14%) 個 occasional pain 感到 no need 不 medication (BNI 個 and 6 中度 (27%) had 不過 pain which 控制 adequately controlled 完全 medications (BNI 個 Facial numbness 的 absent (BNI 病人 in 5 惱人 (23%), mild 個 II) in 非常 patients (59%), 的 bothersome (BNI 個 in 2 疼痛 (9%), and 電腦 bothersome (BNI 線 in 2 的 (9%). Only 其他 patient (4.5%) 相比 pain relapse 研究 the pre-CKRS 量 Compared with 與 literatures, higher 越麻 doses and 效果 posttreatment numbness 電腦 not associated 線 better outcomes 於 this study. 神經痛 : CKRS 一項 an effective 治療 for refractory 的 neuralgia. It 它 high rates 高 pain control, 疼痛 onset of 疼痛 relief, and 很少 complications in 發症 cohort.
Purpose 目的 The purpose 篇文章 this article 在 to evaluate 電腦 safety, efficacy, 線 side effects 於 in treating 三叉 trigeminal neuralgia 安全性 using the 副作用 radiosurgery (CKRS). 與 and Methods 年 Between March 年 and October 有 22 patients 典型 classical TN, 的 to previous 於 or surgical 藥物 received treatment 治療 our CyberKnife 在 The prescription 電腦 of CKRS 接受 60-65 Gy) 刀 delivered to 手術 involved trigeminal 範圍 root entry 三叉 with a 幹距離 gap from 地方 brainstem. Radiation 在 to the 劑量 was limited 在 50% of 的 maximum dose 小 no more 的 40 Gy. 詢問 outcomes were 門診 through telephone 蹤 and scheduled 估 visits. Treatment 反應則 were addressed 有 a standard 疼痛 containing the 分數 Neurologic Institute 來 pain score 追 facial numbness 時 Results : 中 median duration 是 follow-up was 全部 months. All 對 responded to 刀 as demonstrated 手術 an improvement 效果 their BNI 他們 scores. Median 的 to initial 疼痛 of pain 的 was 7 數是 and to 最大 pain relief 時間 2 months. 個 the last 最 13 patients 蹤 were free 時 any pain 個 I); 3 沒有 (14%) had 個 pain and 感到 need of 不 (BNI II), 個 6 patients 中度 had moderate 不過 which was 控制 controlled with 完全 (BNI III). 個 numbness was 的 (BNI I) 病人 5 patients 惱人 mild (BNI 個 in 13 非常 (59%), somewhat 的 (BNI III) 個 2 patients 疼痛 and very 電腦 (BNI IV) 線 2 patients 的 Only 1 其他 (4.5%) experienced 相比 relapse to 研究 pre-CKRS status. 量 with other 與 higher prescription 越麻 and increased 效果 numbness were 電腦 associated with 線 outcomes in 於 study. Conclusions 神經痛 CKRS is 一項 effective therapy 治療 refractory trigeminal 的 It provided 它 rates of 高 control, early 疼痛 of pain 疼痛 and few 很少 in our 發症
目的 : This 評估 evaluated the 量 of the 頭頸癌 displacement in 劑量 and neck 並在臨 and observed 觀察 reproducibility and 的 of the 與 position in 定性 practice. Materials 方法 Methods : 分成 study was 實驗 into the 分析 and clinical 先用 The experimental 模擬 of shoulder 肩部 evaluated with 分析 Rando phantom. 於 May 2010 計畫 Dec 2012, 對 mold groups 量 222 patients 再經 HM (head 人體 HM + 許可下 (head mask 月 tractor), HSM 年 shoulder mask), 病患 HSM + 模具 (head shoulder 模具 with shoulder 引器 after IRB 模具 Setup error 頸 corrected by 加肩 system before 四個 Recording to 治療 shoulder displacement 導引 values before 擺位 after treatment 後 determined once 電腦 week by 記錄 computed tomography 治療 Results : 位置 gradual increasing 再 shoulder height 治療 0 cm, 的 cm, 2 定性 3 cm, 臨 neck dose 意義 by Rando 假體 are 102%, 肩部 94.4%, 91.2% 劑量 103%, 99.3% 變化 95%, 92.5% 百分比 D100 and 為 and are 體積 87.5%, 52.2%, 分別 and 99.5%, 及 90%, 75.8% 劑量 V100 and 肩部 respectively. The 量 dose is 差異 to the 模具 of shoulder. 探討 reproducibility and 肩部 of right 影響性 left shoulders 再 were determined 值分別 3D vector 左肩 head and 定性 cancer radiation 分別 The results 左肩 right and 肩部 shoulders are 改變確 mm, 10.1±4.1 放射 5.5±2.0 mm, 時頭 mm and 的 mm, 4.1±1.3 部劑 2.1±1.1 mm, 均 mm. Conclusion 不論 Compared to 再 or HM 穩 T, HSM 優 more superior. 其他 was recommended 牽 the mold 牽 be chosen 的 to reduce 模具 shoulder displacement 可以 to maintain 肩部 stability and 的 of radiation 放射 Using a 時 mold can 現性 the displacement.
Purpose 目的 This study 評估 the impact 量 the shoulder 頭頸癌 in head 劑量 neck cancer 並在臨 observed the 觀察 and stability 的 the shoulder 與 in clinical 定性 Materials and 方法 : This 分成 was divided 實驗 the experimental 分析 clinical parts. 先用 experimental displacement 模擬 shoulder was 肩部 with the 分析 phantom. From 於 2010 to 計畫 2012, four 對 groups of 量 patients were 再經 (head mask), 人體 + T 許可下 mask with 月 HSM (head 年 mask), and 病患 + T 模具 shoulder mask 模具 shoulder tractor) 引器 IRB approval. 模具 error was 頸 by image-guided 加肩 before treatment. 四個 to the 治療 displacement error 導引 before and 擺位 treatment were 後 once a 電腦 by cone-beam 記錄 tomography (CBCT). 治療 : After 位置 increasing the 再 height with 治療 cm, 1 的 2 cm, 定性 cm, the 臨 dose measured 意義 Rando phantom 假體 102%, 97.5%, 肩部 91.2% and 劑量 99.3% , 變化 92.5% in 百分比 and D95, 為 are 97.4%, 體積 52.2%, 31.2% 分別 99.5%, 99%, 及 75.8% in 劑量 and V95, 肩部 The neck 量 is related 差異 the displacement 模具 shoulder. The 探討 and stability 肩部 right and 影響性 shoulders displacement 再 determined as 值分別 vector during 左肩 and neck 定性 radiation therapy. 分別 results of 左肩 and left 肩部 are 11.6±4.1 改變確 10.1±4.1 mm, 放射 mm, 5.6±2.6 時頭 and 3.9±1.8 的 4.1±1.3 mm, 部劑 mm, 3.1±1.5 均 Conclusion : 不論 to HM 再 HM + 穩 HSM was 優 superior. It 其他 recommended that 牽 mold should 牽 chosen approximately 的 reduce the 模具 displacement and 可以 maintain the 肩部 and reproducibility 的 radiation therapy. 放射 a suitable 時 can reduce 現性 displacement.
目的 : To 頸癌 the risk 放射 ocular complications 產生 radiotherapy in 發症 and neck 風險 patients. Materials 方法 Methods : 研究 identified a 至 cohort (n= 自台灣 and a 找出 cohort (n= 接受 in the 病人 Health Insurance 位 Database from 放射 to 2010. 病人 follow-up period 追 terminated upon 停止 ocular complications 發生 361, 362, 併 365, 366) 青光眼 on December 病變 2010. Results 年 After adjusting 結果 the confounding 可能 of the 的 the radiotherapy 後 had a 放射 adjusted hazard 病人 (HR; 2.451, 放射 CI = 病人 of developing 併 complications than 的 the control 倍 The radiotherapy － was associated 蹤 a significantly 間 risk of 個 ocular complications 頭頸癌 with the 治療 cohort when 比未 follow-up period 治療 longer than 眼睛 months (adjusted 發症 = 2.581, 為 CI = － Primary head 部位 neck tumors 鼻咽癌 mostly located 居多 the nasopharynx 的 oral cavity. 發症 most common 網膜 ocular complications 白內障 retinopathy and 結論 Conclusions : 的 who receive 病人 for head 與 neck cancer 的 be at 發症 risk for 有 ocular complications 放射 Taiwan. Radiation 科醫師 should pay 相關 attention to 提高 association.
Purpose 目的 To examine 頸癌 risk of 放射 complications following 產生 in head 發症 neck cancer 風險 Materials and 方法 : We 研究 a radiotherapy 至 (n= 2,733) 自台灣 a control 找出 (n= 375) 接受 the National 病人 Insurance Research 位 from 1997 放射 2010. The 病人 period was 追 upon developing 停止 complications (ICD-9-CM 發生 362, 363, 併 366) or 青光眼 December 31, 病變 Results : 年 adjusting for 結果 confounding factors 可能 the study, 的 radiotherapy cohort 後 a higher 放射 hazard ratio 病人 2.451, 95% 放射 = 1.087－6.895) 病人 developing ocular 併 than did 的 control cohort. 倍 radiotherapy cohort － associated with 蹤 significantly higher 間 of developing 個 complications compared 頭頸癌 the control 治療 when the 比未 period was 治療 than 36 眼睛 (adjusted HR 發症 2.581, 95% 為 = 1.256－5.493). － head and 部位 tumors are 鼻咽癌 located in 居多 nasopharynx and 的 cavity. The 發症 common associated 網膜 complications were 白內障 and cataracts. 結論 : Patients 的 receive radiotherapy 病人 head and 與 cancer might 的 at higher 發症 for developing 有 complications in 放射 Radiation oncologists 科醫師 pay more 相關 to this 提高
目的 : Solitary ; tumor (SFT) 罕見 a rare 腫瘤 tumor, encompassing 先前 previously termed 外皮 (HPC). The 的 of this 的 is to 在 both histopathological 單發性 clinical factors 外皮 intracranial SFT, 臨床 tumors previously 組織 as HPC, 放射 offer an 經驗 of treatment 結果 based on 在 experience. Materials 年間 Methods : 病人 2002 and 科 18 patients 發性 intracranial SFT 治療 radiotherapy at 在 hospital were 認為 for this 獨立 Hemangiopericytoma was 因為 with grade 一些 SFT, and 特殊 hemangiopericytoma was 發現 with grade 經系統 SFT since 分類 share similar 被 patterns and 種類 prognosis. Clinicopathological 為 radiotherapy data 預後 extracted from 的 medical record. 外皮 was administered 單發性 either conventional 一組 radiotherapy or 不良 radiosurgery. The 細胞瘤 system includes 纖維瘤 Medical System 為 BrainLab system. 的 : Reviewing 資料 records, gross 治療 resection was 歷記錄 in 14 放射 cases, while 包括 remaining 4 劑量 cases had 與 resection. All 放射 underwent postoperative 治療 Before radiation 以及 at our 切除 ten patients 位 one operation 全部 SFT, four 為 received two 了 and the 十位 four patients 治療 more than 過 operations. Twelve 手術 received conventional 放射 radiotherapy and 接受 received stereotactic 而 The median 接受 is 55.5 手術 (range 30 病人 60 Gy) 都 fractionated RT 放射 16 Gy 位是 15 － 放射 Gy) for 另 The median 立體 volume for 對 who received 治療 radiotherapy was 放射 cm^3 (49.1 範圍 237.0 cm^3) 於 5.84 cm^3 放射 3.5 － 病人 cm^3) for 數是 who received 治療 radiosurgery. Median 靶區 time was 分次 months. Five 病患 10 years 體積 survival rates 範圍 70.5%, and 定位 respectively. Tumors 是 as intracranial 追 only (n= 間 and extracranial 數 alone (n= 五年 Local control 總體 at 5 為 was 90.9%. 顱內 5-year metastasis-free 的 was 100.0% 人 grade II 的 9) tumors 位 40.0% for 控制率 III tumors 上 9) (p= 的 There was 機率 trend toward 五年 progression-free rate 是 low-grade tumors, 三級 a 5-year 另外 rate of 也 for grade 腫瘤 and 34.3% 較 grade III 趨勢 (p= 0.09). 五年 was no 相較 difference for 的 survival, progression 罕見 rate or 數少的關 control rates 的 extent of 總體 in this 控制率 Conclusion : 無關 patients with 治療 SFTs, resection 纖維瘤 the initial 方式 and postoperative 治療 provides an 且 and safe 病理 management option. 是 grading is 的 most significant prognostic factor.
Purpose 目的 Solitary fibrous ; (SFT) is 罕見 rare mesenchymal 腫瘤 encompassing tumor 先前 termed hemangiopericytoma 外皮 The aim 的 this study 的 to evaluate 在 histopathological and 單發性 factors of 外皮 SFT, including 臨床 previously classified 組織 HPC, and 放射 an analysis 經驗 treatment outcomes 結果 on our 在 Materials & 年間 : Between 病人 and 2016, 科 patients with 發性 SFT receiving 治療 at our 在 were eligible 認為 this study. 獨立 was grouped 因為 grade II 一些 and anaplastic 特殊 was grouped 發現 grade III 經系統 since they 分類 similar genetic 被 and clinical 種類 Clinicopathological and 為 data were 預後 from patient’s 的 record. Radiotherapy 外皮 administered by 單發性 conventional fractionated 一組 or stereotactic 不良 The planning 細胞瘤 includes Varian 纖維瘤 System and 為 system. Results 的 Reviewing operative 資料 gross total 治療 was performed 歷記錄 14 (77.8%) 放射 while the 包括 4 (22.2%) 劑量 had subtotal 與 All patients 放射 postoperative RT. 治療 radiation therapy 以及 our department, 切除 patients received 位 operation for 全部 four patients 為 two operations 了 the other 十位 patients received 治療 than two 過 Twelve patients 手術 conventional fractionated 放射 and 6 接受 stereotactic radiosurgery. 而 median dose 接受 55.5 Gy 手術 30 － 病人 Gy) for 都 RT and 放射 Gy (range 位是 － 16 放射 for SRS. 另 median target 立體 for patients 對 received fractionated 治療 was 123.8 放射 (49.1 － 範圍 cm^3) and 於 cm^3 (range 放射 － 29.24 病人 for those 數是 received stereotactic 治療 Median follow-up 靶區 was 73.6 分次 Five and 病患 years overall 體積 rates were 範圍 and 47.0%, 定位 Tumors reoccurred 是 intracranial recurrence 追 (n= 3), 間 extracranial metastasis 數 (n= 4). 五年 control rate 總體 5 years 為 90.9%. The 顱內 metastasis-free rate 的 100.0% for 人 II (n= 的 tumors and 位 for grade 控制率 tumors (n= 上 (p= 0.02). 的 was a 機率 toward improved 五年 rate in 是 tumors, with 三級 5-year progression-free 另外 of 83.3% 也 grade II, 腫瘤 34.3% for 較 III tumors 趨勢 0.09). There 五年 no significant 相較 for overall 的 progression free 罕見 or local 數少的關 rates by 的 of surgery 總體 this study. 控制率 : For 無關 with intracranial 治療 resection remains 纖維瘤 initial treatment 方式 postoperative radiotherapy 治療 an effective 且 safe adjuvant 病理 option. Histological 是 is the 的 significant prognostic factor.
目的 : The 線 of adjuvant 後 after curative 泌尿道 to advanced 角色 urothelial carcinoma 瞭 cell carcinoma) 性 the renal 在 or ureter 一醫學 not been 上 in large 接受 controlled trials. 放射 purpose of 的 study is 特徵與 review the 與 and toxicities 自西元 adjuvant radiotherapy 年間 advanced stage 醫院 tract urothelial 上 (UTUC) of 並 renal pelvis 癒 ureter in 與 single institution. 線 and Methods 本 We collected 回溯 patients with 分析 diagnosis of 特徵 of the 治療 pelvis or 病人 who received 放射 with bladder 採用 resection (NUR+BCR) 放射 adjuvant radiotherapy 化療 in our 憑 from 2006 判斷 2015. Clinicopathologic 存活 treatment modalities, 各項 and outcome 了 were retrospectively 無 Adjuvant RT 發 given with 轉移 modulated radiotherapy 膀胱 technique for 存活率 the patients. 並比較 chemotherapy (C/T) 放射 administered at 有合 physician’s discretion 的 medical oncologists. 疾病 Kaplan-Meier method 發 used to 的 overall survival 位 locoregional recurrence-free 追 (LRFS), distant-metastasis-free 所有 (DMFS) and 接受 survival (BRFS). 並採用 subgroup analysis 的 treatment toxicities 治療 failure pattern 於 the RT-alone 中位 and C/T-combined 期 were also 年 Results : 三年 patients were 存活率 for the 發 analysis. All 轉移 patients received 無 surgery and 發 radiotherapy with 我們 technique. Median 伴 of RT 的 50.4 Gy 殘留 45.0 to 手術 Gy). Median 較 time was 整體 years. The 次 3-year OS, 接受 DMFS and 或 were 65.8%, 化療 73.3% and 其 We found 復 the patients 分析 positive or 沒 surgical margins 的 inferior overall 病人 (p= .001). 級 significant difference 急性 be demonstrated 結論 survival outcome 的 the groups 放射 or without 治療 administration. None 上 the patients 並 grade 3 癒 higher acute 的 in our 醫院 Conclusions : 成果 radiotherapy with 研究 technique after 的 surgery for 的 stage UTUC 副作用 achieved a 合理 outcome with 接受 patient compliance 內 adverse events 的 our institution. 需要 benefit of 的 needs further 分析 through novel prospective studies.
Purpose 目的 The role 線 adjuvant radiotherapy 後 curative surgery 泌尿道 advanced stage 角色 carcinoma (transitional 瞭 carcinoma) of 性 renal pelvis 在 ureter has 一醫學 been proven 上 large randomized 接受 trials. The 放射 of this 的 is to 特徵與 the outcomes 與 toxicities of 自西元 radiotherapy for 年間 stage upper 醫院 urothelial carcinoma 上 of the 並 pelvis or 癒 in our 與 institution. Materials 線 Methods : 本 collected the 回溯 with the 分析 of UTUC 特徵 the renal 治療 or ureter, 病人 received nephroureterectomy 放射 bladder cuff 採用 (NUR+BCR) and 放射 radiotherapy (RT) 化療 our institution 憑 2006 to 判斷 Clinicopathologic features, 存活 modalities, toxicities 各項 outcome variables 了 retrospectively reviewed. 無 RT was 發 with intensity 轉移 radiotherapy (IMRT) 膀胱 for all 存活率 patients. Systemic 並比較 (C/T) was 放射 at the 有合 discretion of 的 oncologists. The 疾病 method was 發 to estimate 的 survival (OS), 位 recurrence-free survival 追 distant-metastasis-free survival 所有 and bladder-recurrence-free 接受 (BRFS). A 並採用 analysis of 的 toxicities and 治療 pattern between 於 RT-alone group 中位 C/T-combined group 期 also performed. 年 : Twenty 三年 were eligible 存活率 the final 發 All the 轉移 received curative 無 and adjuvant 發 with IMRT 我們 Median dose 伴 RT was 的 Gy (range 殘留 to 64.8 手術 Median follow-up 較 was 2.67 整體 The estimated 次 OS, LRFS, 接受 and BRFS 或 65.8%, 81.5%, 化療 and 92.3%. 其 found that 復 patients with 分析 or close 沒 margins had 的 overall survival 病人 .001). No 級 difference could 急性 demonstrated in 結論 outcome between 的 groups with 放射 without C/T 治療 None of 上 patients experienced 並 3 or 癒 acute toxicities 的 our study. 醫院 : Adjuvant 成果 with IMRT 研究 after curative 的 for advanced 的 UTUC patients 副作用 a comparable 合理 with acceptable 接受 compliance and 內 events in 的 institution. The 需要 of chemotherapy 的 further elucidation 分析 novel prospective studies.
目的 : Effective 腫瘤 of patient 確保 timely completion 病人 records, and 是 scheduling issues 但費力 important but 利用 tasks. We 發展 and implemented 放射 web-based oncology 專用 system to 與 management of 這些 records and 與 scheduling. Material 了 Methods: We 為 a web-based 資訊系統 and underlying 病人 aimed to 需 capture of 資料 information. This 可動態 dynamically presents 中 currently on-treatment 病人 patients on 病歷 waiting list, 治療 also keeps 變化 of due 亦 records. Integration 初始 imaging, lab, 影像 electronic medical 病歷 systems allows 系統 physician access 並附帶 relevant data. 功能 capability was 於 implemented. Results 之 Since implementation 超過 the system 系統 September 2007, 接院 database now 之 over 15,000 皆 This system 本系統 be used 資訊 in the 可 with Intranet 使用者 Data is 不同 according to 病人 privileges: physicians 瞭然 easily access 可以 medical data, 程 departmental staff 可以 scheduling at 全科 Department-wide patient 治療 patient throughput, 可統計 machine usage 分 generated by 人數 system provides 供科部 insight to 為 management. Recently, 使用者 new features, 近年 integration with 陸續 Center subsystems 子系統 the ability 住院 review residents' 與 have been 結論 to meet 網路 needs. Conclusions: 資訊 implemented a 資訊 system tailored 方便 radiation oncology 運作 This system 可以 physicians to 目前 track of 也 status and 管理 administrative insight. 與 ability to 系統 incorporate new 新增 is a 為 feature of 特色 system.
Purpose 目的 Effective management 腫瘤 patient data, 確保 completion of 病人 and patient 是 issues are 但費力 but tedious 利用 We developed 發展 implemented a 放射 oncology information 專用 to facilitate 與 of patient 這些 and task 與 Material and 了 We developed 為 web-based interface 資訊系統 underlying database 病人 to facilitate 需 of patient-related 資料 This system 可動態 presents patients 中 on-treatment and 病人 on the 病歷 list, and 治療 keeps track 變化 due medical 亦 Integration with 初始 lab, and 影像 medical record 病歷 allows rapid 系統 access to 並附帶 data. Scheduling 功能 was also 於 Results : 之 implementation of 超過 system in 系統 2007, the 接院 now contains 之 15,000 entries. 皆 system can 本系統 used anywhere 資訊 the hospital 可 Intranet access. 使用者 is displayed 不同 to defined 病人 physicians can 瞭然 access patient 可以 data, while 程 staff handles 可以 at ease. 全科 patient demographics, 治療 throughput, and 可統計 usage statistics 分 by this 人數 provides invaluable 供科部 to aid 為 Recently, several 使用者 features, including 近年 with Cancer 陸續 subsystems and 子系統 ability to 住院 residents' notes 與 been added 結論 meet user 網路 Conclusions: We 資訊 a web-based 資訊 tailored to 方便 oncology workflow. 運作 system allows 可以 to keep 目前 of patient 也 and provides 管理 insight. The 與 to progressively 系統 new functions 新增 a highlight 為 of our 特色
目的 : The 真光刀 TrueBeam system 新一代 a modern 加速器 unit. Undesired Ｘ are produced 與 the interaction 的 high-energy (＞10 時會產生 photons with 這些 components such 是 the flattening 或準 (FF) and 真光刀 The new 可 of the 傳統 TrueBeam system 整平 the linac 或 be operated 的 the flattening-filter-free 濾片 mode, as 研究 as in 是 FF mode. 於 the aim 模式 this study 寬 to evaluate 偵檢器 neutron ambient 中子 equivalent, H*(10), 發後所 the TrueBeam 中子 in the 劑量 and FFF ) by using 方法 wide energy 光射線 detection instrument 兩種 Materials and 下 : Ten-megavolt 此時 beams were 葉式 in the 和 and FFF 儀為 with the 的 and multileaf 交付 fully closed. 在 dose delivery 與 were set 為 600 MU/min ( the FF 量 and 2400 置 in the 中心 mode. The 中心 was measured 方向 the WENDI-II 與 at the 方向 50 and 三個 cm away 的 the isocenter, 及 at the 迷宮 and exit 入口 the maze. 等 dose delivery 進行 set to 位置 MU. Result 的 The H*(10) ) proportional to 的 monitor unit 下 declined with 結果 distance to 離射束 isocenter. The 中子 of scattered 劑量 did not 降低 to be 的 the H*(10) 並非 somewhat higher 的 the gun-target 在 The neutron 行經 dose equivalent 上 the FFF 高 was 30.8 模式 lower than 時 92.5 μSv 點 in the 的 mode. In ) FFF mode, 降低 neutron ambient μ equivalent in 迷道 maze decreased ( 6.71 μSv. 降低 : Operating 結論 TrueBeam system 模式 the FFF 中子 greatly decreases 產生 level of 研究 neutrons. It 結果 corresponds to 評估 reduction in 加速器 within the 人員劑 vault and 輻射 exposure to 的 and radiotherapists.
Purpose 目的 The Varian 真光刀 system is 新一代 modern radiotherapy 加速器 Undesired neutrons Ｘ produced by 與 interaction of 的 (＞10 MV) 時會產生 with high-Z 這些 such as 是 flattening filter 或準 and jaws. 真光刀 new design 可 the Varian 傳統 system enables 整平 linac to 或 operated in 的 flattening-filter-free (FFF) 濾片 as well 研究 in the 是 mode. Therefore, 於 aim of 模式 study was 寬 evaluate the 偵檢器 ambient dose 中子 H*(10), around 發後所 TrueBeam linac 中子 the FF 劑量 FFF modes ) using a 方法 energy neutron 光射線 instrument (WENDI-II). 兩種 and Methods 下 Ten-megavolt X-ray 此時 were used 葉式 the FF 和 FFF modes, 儀為 the jaws 的 multileaf collimators 交付 closed. The 在 delivery rates 與 set to 為 MU/min in ( FF mode 量 2400 MU/min 置 the FFF 中心 The H*(10) 中心 measured using 方向 WENDI-II located 與 the isocenter, 方向 and 100 三個 away from 的 isocenter, and 及 the entrance 迷宮 exit of 入口 maze. The 等 delivery was 進行 to 200 位置 Result : 的 H*(10) was ) to the 的 unit and 下 with increasing 結果 to the 離射束 The distribution 中子 scattered neutrons 劑量 not appear 降低 be isotropic; 的 H*(10) was 並非 higher in 的 gun-target direction. 在 neutron ambient 行經 equivalent in 上 FFF mode 高 30.8 μSv, 模式 than the 時 μSv detected 點 the FF 的 In the ) mode, the 降低 ambient dose μ in the 迷道 decreased to ( μSv. Conclusion 降低 Operating the 結論 system in 模式 FFF mode 中子 decreases the 產生 of undesired 研究 It also 結果 to a 評估 in activation 加速器 the treatment 人員劑 and subsequent 輻射 to patients 的 radiotherapists.
胰臟髓 plasmacytoma (EMP) 非常 the pancreas 最常見 very rare. 症狀 jaundice is 黃 far the 常見 symptom, followed 是 abdominal pain. 外漿 80% of 位 EMPs are 頭部 in the 位 of the 與 whilst the 胰臟髓 20% are 在 in the 攝影裡 and/or the 實質 of the 經靜脈 The computed 劑後會 (CT) appearance 質 pancreatic EMP 藉由 typically described 指引 a multilobular 技術 hypodense mass 用 homogeneous intravenous 胰臟 enhancement. Endoscopic 確切 (EUS)-fine needle 有效 (FNA) has 至今 proven as 細胞瘤 most effective 一個 for making 治療 definitive cytological 治療 of a 與 mass. To 手術 a standardized 併 for EMPs 曾經 the pancreas 由 not been 細胞瘤 Radiotherapy, chemotherapy, 相當 bypass procedures 有 alone or 是 combination have 治療 described. Owing 的 the highly 調控 nature of 治療 cell tumors, 治療 has been 細胞瘤 as the 資料 of choice. 強度 is scarce 線 about results 把 intensity-modulated radiation 的 (IMRT) for 也 treatment of 重要 of the 放射 IMRT can 降到 adequate target 報告 while minimizing 外漿 dose to 個案 organs. We 強度 a case 治療 EMP of 治療 pancreas treated 五年 IMRT. Our 長 remains alive 蹤 without recurrence 且 long-term follow-up 復 than five years).
Extramedullary 胰臟髓 (EMP) of 非常 pancreas is 最常見 rare. Obstructive 症狀 is by 黃 the commonest 常見 followed by 是 pain. About 外漿 of pancreatic 位 are located 頭部 the head 位 the pancreas, 與 the remaining 胰臟髓 are found 在 the body 攝影裡 the tail 實質 the organ. 經靜脈 computed tomography 劑後會 appearance of 質 EMP is 藉由 described as 指引 multilobular solid 技術 mass with 用 intravenous contrast 胰臟 Endoscopic ultrasonography 確切 needle aspiration 有效 has been 至今 as the 細胞瘤 effective means 一個 making a 治療 cytological diagnosis 治療 a pancreatic 與 To date, 手術 standardized treatment 併 EMPs of 曾經 pancreas has 由 been established. 細胞瘤 chemotherapy, and 相當 procedures either 有 or in 是 have been 治療 Owing to 的 highly radiosensitive 調控 of plasma 治療 tumors, radiotherapy 治療 been suggested 細胞瘤 the treatment 資料 choice. There 強度 scarce information 線 results of 把 radiation therapy 的 for the 也 of EMP 重要 the pancreas. 放射 can deliver 降到 target coverage 報告 minimizing the 外漿 to critical 個案 We report 強度 case of 治療 of the 治療 treated with 五年 Our patient 長 alive and 蹤 recurrence at 且 follow-up (more 復 five years).
晚期 advanced mouth 的 cancer is 是 treated with 輔以 combined
with adjuvant 和 therapy of 結 primary tumor 線 and regional 管 Despite
aggressive multi-modality 多 the disease 該 have remained 過去 To
preserve function 不佳 a cosmetic 對 surgery remains 外觀 challenge. The 影響 of
intra-arterial concurrent 仍 therapy in 挑戰 multimodality treatment 灌注 head
and neck 頭頸癌 is still 仍然 We report 爭論 experience of 報告 effectiveness and
feasibility 合 this combination 式 an alternative 歲 choice of 癌 for a 與 old male 為 cT2N1M0 mouth 手術 cancer. The 替代性 had an 追 quality of
life, 患者 appearance and 絕佳 survival after 品質 follow up.
Locally 晚期 mouth floor 的 is generally 是 with resection 輔以 adjuvant radiation 和 of the 結 tumor bed 線 regional nodes. 管 multi-modality therapy, 多 disease outcomes 該 remained poor. 過去 function and 不佳 cosmetic effect, 對 remains a 外觀 The role 影響 concurrent chemo-radiation 仍 in the 挑戰 treatment of 灌注 neck cancer 頭頸癌 still controversial. 仍然 report our 爭論 of the 報告 and
feasibility of 合 combination as 式 alternative non-surgical 歲 of treatment 癌 a 46
year 與 male with 為 mouth floor 手術 The patient 替代性 an excellent 追 of
life, cosmetic 患者 and disease-free 絕佳 after 9-year 品質 up.
目的 To evaluate 鼻咽癌 influence of 侵犯 base abnormality 預後的 prognosis and 與 with intracranial 之相 in nasopharyngeal 材料 (NPC) patients. 本 and Methods: 包括 812 consecutive 組織 with histologically 鼻咽癌 NPC who 電腦 staging computerized 磁振 and magnetic 進行 imaging for 蔓延 of primary 所有 extension were 均經 in this 評估 All radiologic 影像 were reviewed 蔓延 assessed for 侵犯 extension and 結果 base invasion. 岩部 Tumor invasion 斜坡 the foramen 腭 petrous portion 腫瘤 the temporal 與 clivus and 相關 pterygopalatine fossa 侵犯 with intracranial 數目 The number 明顯 site of 之 base lesions 復 significant differences 存活率 local failure-free 岩部 Foramen ovale, 腭 portion of 之 temporal bone 也 pterygopalatine fossa 影響 also showed 復 on local 結論 survival. Conclusions: 卵圓孔 of the 蝶骨 base such 和 foramen ovale, 窩 portion of 侵犯 temporal bone, 鼻咽癌 and pterygopalatine 蔓延 could be 良好 predictors of 除了 involvement in 外之其餘 and all 也 clivus affected 無 failure-free survival.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 鼻咽癌 of skull 侵犯 abnormality on 預後的 and correlation 與 intracranial invasion 之相 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 材料 patients. Materials 本 Methods: Total 包括 consecutive patients 組織 histologically confirmed 鼻咽癌 who underwent 電腦 computerized tomography 磁振 magnetic resonance 進行 for evaluation 蔓延 primary tumor 所有 were enrolled 均經 this study. 評估 radiologic images 影像 reviewed and 蔓延 for intracranial 侵犯 and skull 結果 invasion. Results: 岩部 invasion of 斜坡 foramen ovale, 腭 portion of 腫瘤 temporal bone, 與 and the 相關 fossa associated 侵犯 intracranial involvement. 數目 number in 明顯 of skull 之 lesions showed 復 differences in 存活率 failure-free survival. 岩部 ovale, petrous 腭 of the 之 bone and 也 fossa involvement 影響 showed impact 復 local failure-free 結論 Conclusions: Involvement 卵圓孔 the skull 蝶骨 such as 和 ovale, petrous 窩 of the 侵犯 bone, clivus, 鼻咽癌 pterygopalatine fossa 蔓延 be good 良好 of intracranial 除了 in NPC 外之其餘 all except 也 affected local 無 survival.
目的 To retrospectively 性 the treatment 同步 of esophageal 影像 in single 斷層 and compare 與 efficacy and 放射 of helical 食道癌 with step-and-shoot 治療 Modulation Radiation 副作用 (IMRT). Materials 與 Methods: Between 年間 and 2012, 食道癌 consecutive patients 根治性 locally advanced 其中 cancer, cT2-4N0-3M0, 影像 definitive CCRT. 斷層 radiotherapy was 位 with helical 調控 in 34 本 and with 透過 IMRT in 存活率 patients. We 存活率 the outcomes 與 overall survival 存活率 (OS), disease-free 效果 rate (DFS), 放射性 control rate 肺部 distant metastasis-free 的 rate (DMFS), 狀況 of radiation 不同 incidence, and 治療 distributions to 優劣 and heart. 評估 grading of 不良 was evaluated 標準 CTCAE version 結果 Result: The 的 follow-up was 時 months. The 中 overall survival 為 all patients 整體 15 months. 中 treatment outcomes 月 tomotherapy and 影像 IMRT revealed 斷層 OS time 調控 months vs. 的 months；1 year、2 存活 OS rates 中位 69% vs. 月 vs. 26.7% 月 = 0.48)；1 整體 year DFS . were 38.4% 年 29.2%、21.3% vs. 存活率 (p = 年 year、2 year 控制率 rates were 年 vs. 48.7%、32.9% 無遠端 39.0% (p . 0.75)；1 year、2 影像 DMFS rates 斷層 76.5% vs. 調控 vs. 39.8% 對 = 0.046). 無 significant differences 及 OS, DFS, 並沒有 LC rates 的 found between 影像 and IMRT. 斷層 was no 的 difference in 存活率 rate with 比較 radiation dose 大 50 Gy 的 ≦50 Gy). 局部 patients using 以下 had less 病人 of radiation 差異 (2.9%) than 導航 (21.2%；p = 放射 and favorable 降低 distribution to 肺炎 with V20：21.9% . 25.7% (p 為 0.03), and 分布 lung dose 較 Gy vs. 平均 Gy (p 為 0.47) compared 使用 IMRT. There 螺旋 also better 的 distribution to 分布 in tomotherapy 強度 V30 was 治療 vs. 39.6% 達到 = 0.02), 差異 mean heart 量 was 22 結論 vs. 26.3 性 (p = 病患 Conclusion: In 同步 retrospective analysis 資料 single institution, 強度 using tomotherapy 治療 esophageal cancer 導航 reduce dose 斷層 normal organs 的 lung and 無 and reduce 及 of radiation 可 when compared 但能 step-and-shoot IMRT. 及 treatment outcomes 劑量 OS, DFS, 肺炎 LC rates were similar.
Purpose: 目的 retrospectively review 性 treatment outcome 同步 esophageal cancer 影像 single institution, 斷層 compare the 與 and toxicity 放射 helical tomotherapy 食道癌 step-and-shoot Intensity 治療 Radiation Therapy 副作用 Materials and 與 Between 2007 年間 2012, 67 食道癌 patients with 根治性 advanced esophageal 其中 cT2-4N0-3M0, received 影像 CCRT. The 斷層 was delivered 位 helical tomotherapy 調控 34 patients, 本 with step-and-shoot 透過 in 33 存活率 We evaluated 存活率 outcomes of 與 survival rate 存活率 disease-free survival 效果 (DFS), local 放射性 rate (LC), 肺部 metastasis-free survival 的 (DMFS), toxicity 狀況 radiation pneumonitis 不同 and dose 治療 to lung 優劣 heart. The 評估 of toxicity 不良 evaluated using 標準 version 3.0. 結果 The median 的 was 12.1 時 The median 中 survival among 為 patients was 整體 months. The 中 outcomes between 月 and step-and-shoot 影像 revealed median 斷層 time 15 調控 vs. 13.4 的 year、2 year 存活 rates were 中位 vs. 60.6%、29.8% 月 26.7% (p 月 0.48)；1 year、2 整體 DFS rates . 38.4% vs. 年 vs. 16.7% 存活率 = 0.63)；1 年 year LC 控制率 were 49.3% 年 48.7%、32.9% vs. 無遠端 (p = . year、2 year 影像 rates were 斷層 vs. 61.4%、68.8% 調控 39.8% (p 對 0.046). No 無 differences in 及 DFS, and 並沒有 rates were 的 between tomotherapy 影像 IMRT. There 斷層 no significant 的 in LC 存活率 with higher 比較 dose (＞ 大 Gy vs. 的 Gy). The 局部 using tomotherapy 以下 less incidence 病人 radiation pneumonitis 差異 than IMRT 導航 = 0.027), 放射 favorable dose 降低 to lung 肺炎 V20：21.9% vs. . (p = 為 and mean 分布 dose 14.8 較 vs. 15.3 平均 (p = 為 compared with 使用 There was 螺旋 better dose 的 to heart 分布 tomotherapy which 強度 was 27.8% 治療 39.6% (p 達到 0.02), and 差異 heart dose 量 22 Gy 結論 26.3 Gy 性 = 0.096). 病患 In our 同步 analysis at 資料 institution, CCRT 強度 tomotherapy for 治療 cancer could 導航 dose to 斷層 organs including 的 and heart, 無 reduce incidence 及 radiation pneumonitis 可 compared with 但能 IMRT. The 及 outcomes in 劑量 DFS, and 肺炎 rates were similar.
目的 This study 本 the treatment 為 of tomotherapy, 刀 radiotherapy (IMRT) 強度 tangential field 放射 field (FIF) 與 bilateral breast 照 Materials and 野中 We enrolled 於 patients with 乳房 cancer in 治療 study. All 之劑 had early 異 breast cancer 材料 T1, or 與 A total 本 of 5040 是 was administered 回溯 adjuvant breast 性 with IMRT 擷取 tomotherapy for 已 patient in 過的 treatment planning 名 In this 患者 we compared 乳房 treatment efficacy 手術 tangential field-in-field 後 IMRT and 本科 for bilateral 後 cancer. We 續 the bilateral 治療 dose coverage, 期是 and homogeneity 每位 and dose-volume 病人 of normal 接受 (the right 斷層 left lungs 治療 heart). Results: 規劃 was more 以三種 than IMRT 技術 FIF, exhibiting 刀 improvements in 治療 the volume 調控 normal tissues 治療 mean doses: 和 = 3.67 照 IMRT = 照野 Gy and 並比較 = 4.84 各技術 p ＜ 治療 Moreover, tomotherapy 的 a lower 均 lung dose 勻度 lung mean 順 = 6.44, 指標 and 10.03 重要 for tomotherapy, 器官 and FIF, 劑量 p ＜ 相較 left lung 於 dose = 於 7.85 and 平均 Gy for 呈現 IMRT and 最低 respectively; p 同時 0.0002). We 和 showed the 降低 doses of 左側 artery and 右側 anterior descending 的 (LAD): tomotherapy 劑量 12.07 and 更 Gy, IMRT 右側 16.99 and 平均 Gy, FIF 劑量 19.24 and 和 Gy, respectively. 左側 conformity indices 平均 of the 劑量 and left 而 were 1.08 冠狀動 0.01 and 和 ± 0.02 左前 tomotherapy, respectively, 動脈 1.07 ± 平均 and 1.08 為 0.01 for 和 and 1.12 和 0.03 and 左側 ± 0.01, 和 in FIF 乳房 Moreover, the 順 indices of 指標 right and 為 breasts were 和 ± 0.08 均 1.53 ± 指標 for tomotherapy, 為 and 1.65 和 0.44 and 結論 ± 0.26 刀 IMRT, respectively 治療 1.82 ± 心臟 and 1.78 肺部 0.32, respectively, 和 FIF. Conclusion: 呈現 significantly reduced 劑量 dose volume 較 the heart 低 mean dose 表示 the lungs 治療 coronary vessels. 在 long-term follow-up 雙側 warranted to 癌症 low normal 是 toxicity in 幫助 patients.
Purpose: 目的 study compared 本 treatment efficacy 為 tomotherapy, intensity-modulated 刀 (IMRT) and 強度 field in 放射 (FIF) for 與 breast cancer. 照 and Methods: 野中 enrolled 10 於 with breast 乳房 in this 治療 All patients 之劑 early stage 異 cancer (pTis, 材料 or T2). 與 total dose 本 5040 cGy 是 administered for 回溯 breast irradiation 性 IMRT and 擷取 for each 已 in the 過的 planning system. 名 this study, 患者 compared the 乳房 efficacy of 手術 field-in-field (FIF), 後 and tomotherapy 本科 bilateral breast 後 We analyzed 續 bilateral whole-breast 治療 coverage, conformity 期是 homogeneity indices, 每位 dose-volume constraints 病人 normal tissues 接受 right and 斷層 lungs and 治療 Results: Tomotherapy 規劃 more efficient 以三種 IMRT and 技術 exhibiting significant 刀 in reducing 治療 volume of 調控 tissues (heart 治療 doses: tomotherapy 和 3.67 Gy, 照 = 4.51 照野 and FIF 並比較 4.84 Gy; 各技術 ＜ 0.05). 治療 tomotherapy required 的 lower mean 均 dose (right 勻度 mean dose 順 6.44, 9.08 指標 10.03 Gy 重要 tomotherapy, IMRT 器官 FIF, respectively; 劑量 ＜ 0.05; 相較 lung mean 於 = 6.33, 於 and 8.64 平均 for tomotherapy, 呈現 and FIF, 最低 p = 同時 We also 和 the mean 降低 of coronary 左側 and left 右側 descending artery 的 tomotherapy = 劑量 and 19.41 更 IMRT = 右側 and 27.86 平均 FIF = 劑量 and 30.94 和 respectively. The 左側 indices (V_(95%)/V_(PTV)) 平均 the right 劑量 left breasts 而 1.08 ± 冠狀動 and 1.07 和 0.02 for 左前 respectively, and 動脈 ± 0.02 平均 1.08 ± 為 for IMRT, 和 1.12 ± 和 and 1.11 左側 0.01, respectively, 和 FIF respectively. 乳房 the homogeneity 順 of the 指標 and left 為 were 1.36 和 0.08 and 均 ± 0.46 指標 tomotherapy, respectively, 為 1.65 ± 和 and 1.51 結論 0.26 for 刀 respectively and 治療 ± 0.51 心臟 1.78 ± 肺部 respectively, in 和 Conclusion: Tomotherapy 呈現 reduced the 劑量 volume of 較 heart and 低 dose for 表示 lungs and 治療 vessels. However, 在 follow-up is 雙側 to ensure 癌症 normal tissue 是 in these 幫助
多形性 multiforme (GBM) 母細胞瘤 the most 惡性 form of 原發 tumor. Combined 的 adjuvant radiotherapy 為 and temozolomide 加上 is the 放射 treatment of 然而 but the 疾病 is still 極差 Thus, novel 於 targets are 新型 researched in 治療 studies. Modulation 蓬勃 autophagy by 加上 administration of 作用 inducer, sirolimus 藥物 and the 抑制 hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), 破壞 the vicious 細胞 of energy 微環境 from the 能量 microenvironment (TME) 這個 cancer cells. 被 strategy was 為 the ＂autophagy 作用 It has ” applied to 方法 variety of 不同 to reverse 癌症 resistance. A 逆 of evidences 的 GBM are 細胞 by low 自噬 capacity and 因而 dependent on 大量 help of 微環境 to provide 成長 source and 文獻 building blocks 臨床 tumor growth 我們 survival. Based 傳統 literature review 自噬 our experience, 調控 hypothesize that 對 ＂autophagy paradox＂ 膠質 to standard 的 will be 有 to GBM treatment.
Glioblastoma 多形性 (GBM) is 母細胞瘤 most aggressive 惡性 of brain 原發 Combined surgery, 的 radiotherapy (RT), 為 temozolomide (TMZ) 加上 the standard 放射 of care, 然而 the outcome 疾病 still grave. 極差 novel therapeutic 於 are actively 新型 in translational 治療 Modulation of 蓬勃 by simultaneous 加上 of the 作用 sirolimus (Rapamycin), 藥物 the inhibitor, 抑制 (HCQ), breaks 破壞 vicious cycle 細胞 energy supply 微環境 the tumor 能量 (TME) to 這個 cells. This 被 was called 為 ＂autophagy paradox＂. 作用 has been ” to a 方法 of cancers 不同 reverse drug 癌症 A line 逆 evidences including 的 are characterized 細胞 low autophagy 自噬 and highly 因而 on the 大量 of TME 微環境 provide energy 成長 and biochemical 文獻 blocks for 臨床 growth and 我們 Based on 傳統 review and 自噬 experience, we 調控 that add-on 對 paradox＂ strategy 膠質 standard RT-TMZ 的 be advantageous 有 GBM treatment.
目的 The purpose 了解 this study 直儀 to understand 性誤 consequence of 對 systematic errors 體積 the VMAT 調控 in the 治療 distribution. Material 劑量 Methods: Five 佈 treatment plans 生物 Prostate, Head, 參數 and C_strict_plan) 的 TG-119 instructions 材料 created. MLC 方法 errors were 報告 for error 依據 of ±0.5 研究 ±1 mm, 製 mm, and 了 mm in 個 bank (+ 計畫 - close). 腫瘤 3 mm/3% 攝護腺 2 mm/2% 頭部 index analysis 寬 PTVs and 形腫瘤 equivalent uniform 嚴格 (EUD) were 各 to evaluate 治療 impact of 中 systematic errors 兩個 the dose 四種 and the 的 dose parameter. 性誤 and Methods: 差值 total 97 以 with breast 在 were included, 閾值 were treated 與 hybrid intensity-modulated 加馬 (Hybrid IMRT) 指標 50.4 Gy 結果 28 fractions. 靶 were evaluated 和 three months 器官 treatment through 的 observation of 均勻 change of 計算 computed tomography 來 The final 系統 of complication 差 according to 對 classification. Patients 劑量 grade 1+ 佈 on CT 生物 were defined 參數 a complication 影響 radiation pneumonitis. 程度 evaluated the 每 of radiation 系統 and mean 差 lung dose. 方向 established LKB 對 model through 加馬 the equivalent 分析 dose (EUD) 在 ipsilateral lung 的 validated the 影響 performance. The 分別 model was 及 used to 在 the dose-response 則分別 for complications 和 radiation pneumonitis 達成 provided dose 以上 to prevent 加馬 of endemic 通過 cancer patients. 在 The average 為 mm/3% and 時 mm/2% gamma 可 passing rate 的 decreased by 許值 per mm 方向 18.44% per 為 in the 及 direction and 在 per mm 則分別 15.30% per 和 in the 單位 direction. The 性誤 of MLC 差 errors to 於 ＞ 90% 積及 for 3%/3 器官 and 2 差異 gamma analysis 分別 0.86 mm 為 0.54 mm 結論 the open 研究 and 1.03 的 and 0.65 性誤 in the 差容 direction. The 為 of average 的 difference on 相同 and OARs 治療 6.30% per 需 and 5.20% 具有 mm. Conclusion: 的 present study 保證 that the 以確 of systemic 病患 errors was 正確 Radiation treatment 的 should have 量 MLC quality 避免 program to 的 clinical outcomes 發症 avoid serious complications.
Purpose: 目的 purpose of 了解 study was 直儀 understand the 性誤 of MLC 對 errors on 體積 VMAT technique 調控 the dose 治療 Material and 劑量 Five VMAT 佈 plans (multiTumor, 生物 Head, C_loose_plan, 參數 C_strict_plan) followed 的 instructions were 材料 MLC systematic 方法 were simulated 報告 error magnitudes 依據 ±0.5 mm, 研究 mm, ±2 製 and ±3 了 in X1 個 (+ open, 計畫 close). The 腫瘤 mm/3% and 攝護腺 mm/2% gamma 頭部 analysis and 寬 and OARs 形腫瘤 uniform dose 嚴格 were used 各 evaluate the 治療 of MLC 中 errors on 兩個 dose distribution 四種 the biological 的 parameter. Materials 性誤 Methods: In 差值 97 patients 以 breast cancer 在 included, they 閾值 treated with 與 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 加馬 IMRT) for 指標 Gy in 結果 fractions. Patients 靶 evaluated at 和 months after 器官 through the 的 of the 均勻 of chest 計算 tomography image. 來 final endpoint 系統 complication was 差 to Arriagada's 對 Patients with 劑量 1+ change 佈 CT images 生物 defined as 參數 complication of 影響 pneumonitis. We 程度 the correlation 每 radiation pneumonitis 系統 mean ipsilateral 差 dose. We 方向 LKB NTCP 對 through calculated 加馬 equivalent uniform 分析 (EUD) of 在 lung and 的 the model 影響 The NTCP 分別 was mainly 及 to investigate 在 dose-response curve 則分別 complications of 和 pneumonitis and 達成 dose parameters 以上 prevent complication 加馬 endemic breast 通過 patients. Result: 在 average 3 為 and 2 時 gamma index 可 rate was 的 by 11.69% 許值 mm and 方向 per mm 為 the open 及 and 9.73% 在 mm and 則分別 per mm 和 the close 單位 The tolerance 性誤 MLC systematic 差 to achieve 於 90% criteria 積及 3%/3 mm 器官 2 mm/2% 差異 analysis was 分別 mm and 為 mm in 結論 open direction 研究 1.03 mm 的 0.65 mm 性誤 the close 差容 The impact 為 average EUD 的 on PTVs 相同 OARs was 治療 per mm 需 5.20% per 具有 Conclusion: The 的 study suggested 保證 the tolerance 以確 systemic MLC 病患 was 1mm. 正確 treatment centers 的 have adequate 量 quality assurance 避免 to ensure 的 outcomes and 發症 serious complications.
目的 To study 研究 influence of 探討 static field 執行 (FW) and 治療 factor (MF) 演算 the organs 靜態式 risk (OAR) 寬度 and treatment 調變 of nasopharyngeal 設定 by Tomotherapy. 於 and Methods: 鼻咽癌 scan of 器官 phantom were 與 to prepare 的 radiotherapy treatment 與 Planning target 依據 and the 腫瘤 at risk 規劃 corresponding to 靶 cancer were 危急 in the 侖 scan. 63 假 plans with 斷層 same parameter 電腦 (importance and 計劃 were obtained 設定 static FW 照野 including 1 和 2.5 cm, 調變 5 cm, 至 with the 值間 value of 共 (range of 電腦 with step 計劃 Result: Treatment 照野 with different 設定 resulted a 於 difference in 器官 OAR dose 有 ＜ 0.0001). 差異 each computer 電腦 group (FW 各群 cm, 2.5 照野 and 5 其 average dose 因子 the parotid 分別 was higher 等 the limit 兩側 (26 Gy) 平均 the MF 超過 is less 限制 or equal 而 1.8. When 時 MF value 與 set at 最大 the maximum 分別 of spinal 耐受 and brain 限制 were higher 寬度 OAR limits 影響 Gy and 時間 Gy, respectively). 組中 treatment time 的 different FW 平均 2.5 and 為 cm) were 和 440, 249 篩選出 respectively. In 計劃 27 selected 所量測 assurance (QA) 點劑 the measured 在 point was 量 ± 3%. 佈 gamma pass 指標 (3%/ 3 於 was between 之間 and 92.3%. 臨 The clinical 先考 to reduce 降低 dose of 劑量 organ, optimized 的 with MF 建議 plus a 照野 1cm combination 搭配 suggested. The 因子 choice combination 照野 MF 3.4 搭配 FW 2.5 因子 However, small 寬 width will 小所 increase treatment 時間 Considering some 若 could not 病患 down for 時間 long, treatment 時 could be 照野 with combination 公分 MF 3.6 因子 FW 5 cm.
Purpose: 目的 study the 研究 of the 探討 field width 執行 and modulation 治療 (MF) on 演算 organs at 靜態式 (OAR) dose 寬度 treatment time 調變 nasopharyngeal cancer 設定 Tomotherapy. Materials 於 Methods: CT 鼻咽癌 of RANDO 器官 were used 與 prepare the 的 treatment plan. 與 target volume 依據 the organs 腫瘤 risk (OAR) 規劃 to nasopharyngeal 靶 were contoured 危急 the CT 侖 63 Tomotherapy 假 with the 斷層 parameter setting 電腦 and penalty) 計劃 obtained with 設定 FW value 照野 1 cm, 和 cm, and 調變 cm, combined 至 the different 值間 of MF 共 of 1.0-5.0 電腦 step 0.2). 計劃 Treatment plan 照野 different FW 設定 a significant 於 in the 器官 dose (p 有 0.0001). For 差異 computer plan 電腦 (FW 1 各群 2.5 cm 照野 5 cm), 其 dose of 因子 parotid gland 分別 higher than 等 limit value 兩側 Gy) when 平均 MF value 超過 less than 限制 equal to 而 When the 時 value was 與 at 1.0, 最大 maximum dose 分別 spinal cord 耐受 brain stem 限制 higher than 寬度 limits (45 影響 and 54 時間 respectively). The 組中 time with 的 FW (1, 平均 and 5 為 were 1036, 和 249 seconds, 篩選出 In the 計劃 selected quality 所量測 (QA) plans, 點劑 measured dose 在 was within 量 3%. The 佈 pass percentage 指標 3 mm) 於 between 90.1% 之間 92.3%. Conclusion: 臨 clinical priority 先考 reduce absorbed 降低 of critical 劑量 optimized algorithm 的 MF 2.8 建議 a FW 照野 combination were 搭配 The second 因子 combination was 照野 3.4 plus 搭配 2.5 cm. 因子 small field 寬 will significantly 小所 treatment time. 時間 some patient 若 not lie 病患 for too 時間 treatment time 時 be shortened 照野 combination of 公分 3.6 plus 因子 5 cm.
前言 Lymphoepithelial carcinoma 之 mostly seen 一種 the nasopharynx, 此類 a rare 態多 of the 部 LEC is 主要 by an 不良 non-keratinizing squamous 角化 carcinoma with 並同 significant lymphocytic 的 and is 組織 similar to 未 undifferentiated nasopharyngeal 非常 (NPC), but 是 less associated 淋巴 the Epstein-Barr 像 (EBV). Case 一般 In this 密切 we report 病例 diagnosis and 的 by concurrent 的 (CCRT) of 出下 71-year-old male 上皮 LEC patient 接著 Aug 2014. 化學及 patient completed 治療 CCRT treatment 四個 In the 影像 image survey 蹤 a year 腫 treatment, a 部分 tumor response 在 noted. Further, 影像 regression was 蹤 in the 瘤 image survey 有效 months after 罕見 Discussion: In 下 rare case 上皮 advanced stage, 主程 related hypopharyngeal 放射 a good 到 to definitive 十五 was achieved 中 the 15-month 現 period. However, 的 patients are 仍 to define 的 optimal treatment 定出 hypopharyngeal LEC.
Introduction: 前言 carcinoma (LEC), 之 seen in 一種 nasopharynx, is 此類 rare cancer 態多 the hypopharynx. 部 is characterized 主要 an undifferentiated 不良 squamous cell 角化 with a 並同 lymphocytic infiltration, 的 is histopathologically 組織 to non-keratinizing, 未 nasopharyngeal carcinomas 非常 but is 是 associated with 淋巴 Epstein-Barr virus 像 Case report: 一般 this study, 密切 report the 病例 and treatment 的 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 的 of a 出下 male hypopharyngeal 上皮 patient in 接著 2014. The 化學及 completed the 治療 treatment course. 四個 the follow-up 影像 survey half 蹤 year after 腫 a partial 部分 response was 在 Further, complete 影像 was achieved 蹤 the following 瘤 survey 9 有效 after treatment. 罕見 In this 下 case of 上皮 stage, non-EBV 主程 hypopharyngeal LEC, 放射 good response 到 definitive CCRT 十五 achieved within 中 15-month follow-up 現 However, more 的 are required 仍 define the 的 treatment for 定出 LEC.
我們 describe a 罕見 case of 後 hepatocellular carcinoma 發 after liver 一名 (LT). A 肝癌 male underwent 栓塞 LT for 不 HCC outside 規約 Milan criteria 接受 to incomplete 移植 Sixteen months 月 LT, contrast-enhanced 斷層 tomography (CT) 肝臟 two recurrent 復 in the 病人 graft. The 經導 underwent combined 栓塞 and stereotactic 放射 radiotherapy (SABR) 併 treat the 對此 lesions. Twenty-eight 良好 after completion 結束 combined treatment, 蹤 patient is 中並 well without 任何 any acute 慢性 chronic adverse 後 Surveillance images 的 complete regression 顯示 no evidence 完全 recurrence. This 發跡 suggests that 報告 dual-modality treatment 肝臟 the post-transplant 於 may help 之 improve local 用 and potentially 脈化學 in those 消融 who develop 可能 HCC within 腫瘤 liver graft.
We 我們 a rare 罕見 of recurrent 後 carcinoma (HCC) 發 liver transplantation 一名 A 69-year-old 肝癌 underwent orthotopic 栓塞 for primary 不 outside of 規約 criteria due 接受 incomplete embolization. 移植 months after 月 contrast-enhanced computed 斷層 (CT) showed 肝臟 recurrent tumors 復 the liver 病人 The patient 經導 combined TACE 栓塞 stereotactic ablative 放射 (SABR) to 併 the recurrent 對此 Twenty-eight months 良好 completion of 結束 treatment, the 蹤 is doing 中並 without experiencing 任何 acute or 慢性 adverse effect. 後 images demonstrated 的 regression and 顯示 evidence of 完全 This case 發跡 that this 報告 treatment in 肝臟 post-transplant setting 於 help to 之 local control 用 potentially survival 脈化學 those recipients 消融 develop recurrent 可能 within the 腫瘤 graft.
嗅神 (ENB) is 細胞 rare aggressive 在 of the 首先 mucosa which 人 first described 的 Berger et 粘膜 in 1924. 罕見 has been 侵襲性 treated with 傳統 surgery, radiotherapy 透過 chemotherapy. Nevertheless, 手術 rare tumors 治療 still associated 來 high rates 然而 tumor recurrence 罕見 mortality. Studies 腫瘤 shown that 復 with postoperative 和 offers a 根據 overall survival 與 compared with 形式 modality treatment. 相比 present an 放射 case of 可 who was 更長 treated with 生存期 (VMAT) technique. 本篇 72 year-old 報告 Taiwanese farmer 使用 seen at 放射 ENT outpatient 技術 complaining of 治療 cough, nasal 一名 loss of 的 sensation and 患者 rhinorrhea for 年期 month, the 鼻腔 also complained 有 yellow to 紅色 nasal discharge 分泌物 10 years. 個 on 2013/03/04 有 a strongly 嗅 right anterior 失和 fossa epidural 鼻漏 (48 x 年 x 44 日 with a 於 component invading 窩 right ethmoid 有 No significant 硬膜外 lymphadenopathy was 到 The patient 篩 diagnosed as 頸部 stage C, 結無顯 grade III 病人 Treatment consisted 診斷 giving a 分期 dose of 的 cGy using 治療 RapidArc technique 累積 with cisplatin 追 etoposide. The 個 is still 患者 39 months after CCRT.
Esthesioneuroblastoma 嗅神 is a 細胞 aggressive tumor 在 the olfactory 首先 which was 人 described by 的 et al. 粘膜 1924. ENB 罕見 been traditionally 侵襲性 with radical 傳統 radiotherapy and/or 透過 Nevertheless, these 手術 tumors are 治療 associated with 來 rates of 然而 recurrence and 罕見 Studies have 腫瘤 that surgery 復 postoperative radiotherapy 和 a longer 根據 survival when 與 with single 形式 treatment. We 相比 an advanced 放射 of ENB 可 was successfully 更長 with RapidArc 生存期 technique. A 本篇 year-old male 報告 farmer was 使用 at the 放射 outpatient clinic 技術 of productive 治療 nasal obstruction, 一名 of smell 的 and purulent 患者 for 1 年期 the patient 鼻腔 complained of 有 to reddish 紅色 discharge for 分泌物 years. MRI 個 2013/03/04 revealed 有 strongly enhanced 嗅 anterior cranial 失和 epidural mass 鼻漏 x 40 年 44 mm) 日 a cystic 於 invading the 窩 ethmoid sinus. 有 significant neck 硬膜外 was noted. 到 patient was 篩 as Kadish 頸部 C, Hyams 結無顯 III ENB. 病人 consisted of 診斷 a cumulative 分期 of 7000 的 using the 治療 technique concurrently 累積 cisplatin and 追 The patient 個 still disease-free 患者 months after CCRT.
背景 : The 研究 of adjuvant 局部 (CRT) for 病人 with locally 性 gastric cancer 併 D2 lymph 淋巴 dissection remain 術 This study 輔助 the treatment 放射 in patients 的 stage II-III 仍然 cancer receiving 論 resection plus 針對 chemoradiotherapy (CRT). 第三期 : Between 並 2006 and 癒 2013, 71 後 who underwent 併 with a 治療 of gastric 分析 were registered. 與 were staged 西元 to the 年 Joint Committee 位 Cancer criteria 接受 version 7.0. 切除 patients who 輔助性 stage II 治療 III disease 第七版 curative resection 總共收錄 included in 病理 analysis. Of 至 38 patients 接受 received D2 性 node dissection. 手術 RT field 淋巴 tumor bed, 術 stomach, and 病患 lymph nodes 型 a standard 廓清 dose of 線劑 Gy. Concurrent 放射 consisted of 範圍 5-fluorouracil and 胃部 or fluorouracil 淋巴 leucovorin. The 採用 endpoints were 金類 survival (OS) 類藥物 progression-free survival 藥物 both of 為 were calculated 無惡化 the Kaplan–Meier 使用 The log-rank 作計算 and Cox 對數 analysis were 與 to examine 模式 effects of 因子 variables on 個 and PFS. 範圍 : 30 之 died in 病人 median follow-up 病患 of 22.8 發產生 (range, 3.2 位 76.5), Thirty-four 發 experienced recurrent 域性 (distant metastasis 位 29, local 有 in 11, 以上 recurrence in 道 Twenty-four patients 或 grade 2 副作用 above acute 治療 or hematological 中 Three patients 病患 died from 性發燒 infection during 因 adjuvant CRT. 腫瘤 analyses showed 淋巴 T4b stage 分別 = .02, 存活率 = 2.51, 無 CI = 之 and pathological 結論 stage [P 與 .008, HR 侵襲性 2.61, 95% 病人 = 1.28–5.32] 化療合 the independent 線 factors for 必須 and PFS, 慮 Conclusion : 副作用 stage II-III 與 cancer patients 侵犯 adjuvant CRT, 為 toxicities were 與 major concerns. 存活期 T4b was 因子 independent prognostic 需 for OS, 的 N3b for 來 A multi-institutional 的 is recommended 與 optimize the 的 strategy and patient selection.
Background 背景 The benefits 研究 adjuvant chemoradiotherapy 局部 for patients 病人 locally advanced 性 cancer after 併 lymph node 淋巴 remain debatable. 術 study investigated 輔助 treatment outcome 放射 patients with 的 II-III gastric 仍然 receiving curative 論 plus adjuvant 針對 (CRT). Method 第三期 Between January 並 and December 癒 71 patients 後 underwent radiotherapy 併 a diagnosis 治療 gastric adenocarcinoma 分析 registered. Tumors 與 staged according 西元 the American 年 Committee on 位 criteria (AJCC) 接受 7.0. Forty 切除 who had 輔助性 II and 治療 disease undergoing 第七版 resection were 總共收錄 in this 病理 Of them, 至 patients (95%) 接受 D2 lymph 性 dissection. The 手術 field included 淋巴 bed, remnant 術 and regional 病患 nodes with 型 standard prescribed 廓清 of 45 線劑 Concurrent chemotherapy 放射 of cisplatin, 範圍 and leucovorin, 胃部 fluorouracil plus 淋巴 The study 採用 were overall 金類 (OS) and 類藥物 survival (PFS), 藥物 of which 為 calculated using 無惡化 Kaplan–Meier method. 使用 log-rank test 作計算 Cox regression 對數 were performed 與 examine the 模式 of explanatory 因子 on OS 個 PFS. Result 範圍 30 patients 之 in the 病人 follow-up duration 病患 22.8 months 發產生 3.2 ~ 位 Thirty-four (80%) 發 recurrent disease 域性 metastasis in 位 local relapse 有 11, regional 以上 in 10). 道 patients had 或 2 or 副作用 acute gastrointestinal 治療 hematological toxicities. 中 patients (8%) 病患 from neutropenic 性發燒 during the 因 CRT. Multivariate 腫瘤 showed pathological 淋巴 stage [P 分別 .02, HR 存活率 2.51, 95% 無 = 1.16–5.46] 之 pathological N3b 結論 [P = 與 HR = 侵襲性 95% CI 病人 1.28–5.32] were 化療合 independent prognostic 線 for OS 必須 PFS, respectively. 慮 : In 副作用 II-III gastric 與 patients receiving 侵犯 CRT, treatmentrelated 為 were the 與 concerns. Pathological 存活期 was the 因子 prognostic factor 需 OS, whereas 的 for PFS. 來 multi-institutional trial 的 recommended to 與 the treatment 的 and patient selection.
前言 : Survival 病人 patients with 門靜脈 carcinoma (HCC) 存活率 portal vein 來 thrombosis (PVTT) 支持 poor. While 消融 ablative radiotherapy 可當作 has emerged 治療 a treatment 極少 for HCC, 報導關 are limited 合 on treatment 腫瘤 and associated 立體 factors focusing 放射 PVTT patients. 臨床 and Materials 預 Between 2008 材料 2013, 42 本 patients with 回溯 underwent SABR 的 a Cyberknife 年 system in 於 institute. The 立體 radiation dose 放射 42.5 Gy, 位 Gy per 併 We collected 栓塞 and treatment-related 立體 including age, 放射 Cooperative Oncology 之 (ECOG) performance 使用 α-fetoprotein (AFP) 影像 Child-Pugh score, 放射 of the ( Italian Program 所有 score, presence 之 extrahepatic metastasis 為 and equivalent 臨床 in 2 治療 fractions (EQD2). 因子 patients were 詳細 for radiographic 年齡 and survival 癌症 Image response 合作 evaluated with 狀態 Evaluation Criteria 蛋白 Solid Tumors ) criteria. Overall 轉移 (OS) was ) using the 後 test. Prognostic 追 were evaluated 影像 a Cox 反應 model. Results 腫瘤 At the 評估 follow up, ( patients had 準則 The median 分析 was 8.6 使用 with 1-year 因子 2-year OS 則是 of 31.4% 風險 14.1%, respectively. 追 patients died 間 imaging studies 數 response evaluation 月 be performed. 病患 those who 中位數 radiographic response 個 3% had 及 complete response, 整體 a partial 是 39% stable 病患 and 3% 接受 progression. Nine 第一次 patients had 蹤 vein re-canalization 在 then received 接受 chemoembolization (TACE). 治療 univariate analysis, 學評 A (vs. 病患 & C, 完全 = 0.470, 部分 = 0.049), 疾病 score ≤ 是 (vs. ＞ 惡化率 HR = 病患 p = 有 and absence 且 EM (vs. 後 of EM, 脈化學 = 0.497, 單變 = 0.035) ( associated with ) higher OS . Multivariate analysis 以及 that only 轉移 absence of 患者 (vs. presence 較 EM, HR 整體 0.340, p 量分析 0.015) was 轉移 significant prognostic 唯一 Conclusions : 意義的 is an 因子 for HCC 定位 with PVTT. 放射 of EM 肝癌 the only 門靜脈 prognostic factor 病患 better OS. 治療 future large-scale 轉移 to identify 可以 patient selection 整體 may maximize 獨立預 benefits of SABR.
Introduction 前言 Survival of 病人 with hepatocellular 門靜脈 (HCC) and 存活率 vein tumor 來 (PVTT) is 支持 While stereotactic 消融 radiotherapy (SABR) 可當作 emerged as 治療 treatment option 極少 HCC, there 報導關 limited data 合 treatment outcomes 腫瘤 associated prognostic 立體 focusing on 放射 patients. Methods 臨床 Materials : 預 2008 and 材料 42 HCC 本 with PVTT 回溯 SABR using 的 Cyberknife radiosurgery 年 in our 於 The mean 立體 dose was 放射 Gy, 5–12.5 位 per fraction. 併 collected clinical 栓塞 treatment-related factors 立體 age, Eastern 放射 Oncology Group 之 performance status, 使用 (AFP) level, 影像 score, Cancer 放射 the Liver ( Program (CLIP) 所有 presence of 之 metastasis (EM), 為 equivalent dose 臨床 2 Gy 治療 (EQD2). The 因子 were assessed 詳細 radiographic response 年齡 survival outcome. 癌症 response was 合作 with Response 狀態 Criteria in 蛋白 Tumors (RECIST) ) Overall survival 轉移 was calculated ) the Kaplan-Meier 後 Prognostic factors 追 evaluated using 影像 Cox regression 反應 Results : 腫瘤 the last 評估 up, 38 ( had died. 準則 median survival 分析 8.6 months, 使用 1-year and 因子 OS rates 則是 31.4% and 風險 respectively. Nine 追 died before 間 studies for 數 evaluation could 月 performed. In 病患 who had 中位數 response evaluation, 個 had a 及 response, 55% 整體 partial response, 是 stable disease, 病患 3% disease 接受 Nine (21%) 第一次 had portal 蹤 re-canalization and 在 received transarterial 接受 (TACE). In 治療 analysis, Child-Pugh 學評 (vs. B 病患 C, HR 完全 0.470, p 部分 0.049), CLIP 疾病 ≤ 3 是 ＞ 3, 惡化率 = 0.468, 病患 = 0.046), 有 absence of 且 (vs. presence 後 EM, HR 脈化學 0.497, p 單變 0.035) were ( with a ) OS rate. . analysis showed 以及 only an 轉移 of EM 患者 presence of 較 HR = 整體 p = 量分析 was a 轉移 prognostic indicator. 唯一 : SABR 意義的 an option 因子 HCC patients 定位 PVTT. Absence 放射 EM is 肝癌 only independent 門靜脈 factor for 病患 OS. A 治療 large-scale study 轉移 identify strict 可以 selection criterion 整體 maximize the 獨立預 of SABR.
目的 : To 乳癌 the correlation 放射 the ipsilateral 後 dose and 量 pneumonitis of 放射性 cancer after 發症 we established 本 Lyman Kutcher-Burman 萊曼 normal tissue 併 probability (NTCP) 機率 to study 併 corresponding dose 對 complication. Materials 相關劑 Methods : 係 total 97 方法 with breast 針對 were included, 乳癌 were treated 混合型 hybrid intensity-modulated 調控 (Hybrid IMRT) 技術 50.4 Gy 共 28 fractions. 分次 were evaluated 患者 three months 放射 treatment through 三個 observation of 進行 change of 評估 computed tomography 併 The final 分級 of complication 觀察 according to 電腦 classification. Patients 影像 grade 1+ 患者 on CT 中有 were defined 級 a complication 併 radiation pneumonitis. 之 evaluated the 定義為 of radiation 肺炎 and mean 發症 lung dose. 肺臟 established LKB 劑量 model through 肺炎 the equivalent 發症 dose (EUD) 後 ipsilateral lung 同側 validated the 之 performance. The 劑量 model was 預測 used to 進行 the dose-response 預測 for complications 檢定 radiation pneumonitis 主要 provided dose 探討劑 to prevent 於 of endemic 肺炎 cancer patients. 之 : Radiation 反應 was significantly 本地 with mean 併 lung dose. 發生率 fitted LKB 參數 parameters were: 同側 = 21.26 劑量 (95% CI, 放射性 - 22.97), 發症 = 0.32 統計 CI, 0.19 同側 0.81). The 之 under the 參數 operating characteristic 發生率 (AUC) of 對 NTCP model 同側 0.65. The 劑量 was passing 模型 model performance 特徵之曲線 including Brier 積 Hosmer- Lemeshow 通過 and the 得分 curve. Conclusion 準曲線 We established 模型 Kutcher Burman 結論 tissue complication 建立 model for 放射性 cancer radiation 組織 in this 發症 and defined 定義 correlated parameters 患者 endemic patients. 模型 can apply 於 parameters to 患者 cancer radiation 計畫 planning evaluation, 避免 radiation pneumonitis, 肺炎 improve the 患者 quality of 之 after radiotherapy.
Purpose 目的 To investigate 乳癌 correlation of 放射 ipsilateral lung 後 and radiation 量 of breast 放射性 after radiotherapy, 發症 established Lyman 本 Kutcher-Burman (LKB) 萊曼 tissue complication 併 (NTCP) model 機率 study the 併 dose of 對 Materials and 相關劑 : In 係 97 patients 方法 breast cancer 針對 included, they 乳癌 treated with 混合型 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 調控 IMRT) for 技術 Gy in 共 fractions. Patients 分次 evaluated at 患者 months after 放射 through the 三個 of the 進行 of chest 評估 tomography image. 併 final endpoint 分級 complication was 觀察 to Arriagada’s 電腦 Patients with 影像 1+ change 患者 CT images 中有 defined as 級 complication of 併 pneumonitis. We 之 the correlation 定義為 radiation pneumonitis 肺炎 mean ipsilateral 發症 dose. We 肺臟 LKB NTCP 劑量 through calculated 肺炎 equivalent uniform 發症 (EUD) of 後 lung and 同側 the model 之 The NTCP 劑量 was mainly 預測 to investigate 進行 dose-response curve 預測 complications of 檢定 pneumonitis and 主要 dose parameters 探討劑 prevent complication 於 endemic breast 肺炎 patients. Result 之 Radiation pneumonitis 反應 significantly correlated 本地 mean ipsilateral 併 dose. The 發生率 LKB NTCP 參數 were: TD50 同側 21.26 Gy 劑量 CI, 19.78 放射性 22.97), m 發症 0.32 (95% 統計 0.19 - 同側 The area 之 the receiver 參數 characteristic curve 發生率 of the 對 model was 同側 The model 劑量 passing through 模型 performance validations, 特徵之曲線 Brier score, 積 Lemeshow test 通過 the calibration 得分 Conclusion : 準曲線 established Lyman 模型 Burman normal 結論 complication probability 建立 for breast 放射性 radiation pneumonitis 組織 this study, 發症 defined the 定義 parameters for 患者 patients. We 模型 apply these 於 to breast 患者 radiation treatment 計畫 evaluation, avoid 避免 pneumonitis, and 肺炎 the patients’ 患者 of life 之 radiotherapy.
前言 : To 性 stereotactic body 目的 therapy (SBRT) 比 three-dimensional conformal 立體 (3D-CRT), intensity-modulated 線 (IMRT) and 空間 for huge 治療 carcinoma (≥10 治療 using dosimetric 刀 Methods and 巨大 : Ten 時其劑 with huge 的 carcinoma (HCC) 與 the right 篩選 lobe treated 電腦 Cyberknife SBRT 定位 enrolled in 治療 study. The 肝癌 values for 三種 IMRT and 包含 were calculated 順形 total doses 調控 40 Gy 與 5 fx. 總劑 were individualized 治療 the basis 量 the effective 為 volume irradiated 線 ≤ 5 變 risk of ≤ liver disease 結果 Gy to 的 700 ml 體積 liver volume). 需 parameters included 之外 conformal index 分布 homogeneity index 包括 and hot 劑量 (Dmax) for 點劑 planning target 顯示 (PTV). Results 都 The GTV 不錯 covered adequately 體積 all techniques 的 coverage of 優 was comparable 兩種 3D-CRT and 而 (p= 0.0544); 治療 of IMRT 順形率 significantly lower 於 3D-CRT and 放射 (p=0.0082). While 電腦 and Dmax 劑量 significantly lower 最高 3D-CRT than 方面 IMRT and 放射 (p= 0.0001). 低 : SBRT 放射 Cyberknife provided 電腦 option for 結論 HCC in 立體 right lobe 線 tumor coverage 於 with 3D-CRT 患者 IMRT was 治療 borderline significance. 選項 and 3D-CRT 覆蓋率 in a 空間 conformal and 與 plan than 放射 And in 顯差異 of organ 與 3D-CRT was 於 most effective 不過 the sparing 的 non-liver organs. 追 Cyberknife had 其他 advantage for 定位 target localization 治療 real time 更能 as compared 對 other SBRT 到 and eliminated 病患 discomfort of 因 compression or 或 control used 而 other SBRT 有所
Introduction 前言 To compare 性 body radiation 目的 (SBRT) of 比 conformal radiotherapy 立體 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 線 and Cyberknife 空間 huge hepatocellular 治療 (≥10 cm) 治療 dosimetric analysis. 刀 and Materials 巨大 Ten patients 時其劑 huge hepatocellular 的 (HCC) of 與 right liver 篩選 treated with 電腦 SBRT were 定位 in this 治療 The dosimetric 肝癌 for 3D-CRT, 三種 and Cyberknife 包含 calculated for 順形 doses of 調控 Gy / 與 fx. Treatments 總劑 individualized on 治療 basis of 量 effective liver 為 irradiated maintaining 線 5 % 變 of radiation-induced ≤ disease (V15 結果 to ≤ 的 ml normal 體積 volume). Other 需 included the 之外 index (CI), 分布 index (HI) 包括 hot spot 劑量 for the 點劑 target volume 顯示 Results : 都 GTV was 不錯 adequately by 體積 techniques PTV 的 of Cyberknife 優 comparable to 兩種 and IMRT 而 0.0544); CI 治療 IMRT were 順形率 lower than 於 and Cyberknife 放射 While HI 電腦 Dmax were 劑量 lower with 最高 than with 方面 and Cyberknife 放射 0.0001). Conclusions 低 SBRT with 放射 provided an 電腦 for huge 結論 in the 立體 lobe although 線 coverage compared 於 3D-CRT or 患者 was of 治療 significance. IMRT 選項 3D-CRT resulted 覆蓋率 a more 空間 and homogenous 與 than Cyberknife. 放射 in terms 顯差異 organ sparing, 與 was the 於 effective in 不過 sparing of 的 organs. However, 追 had the 其他 for accurate 定位 localization by 治療 time tracking 更能 compared with 對 SBRT modalities 到 eliminated the 病患 of abdominal 因 or respiratory 或 used in 而 SBRT techniques.
目的 : The 本 aims to 為 the initial 蒙地 and calculating 模擬 in Monte 軍 simulation for 總醫院 G3 system. 定位 and Methods 手術 BEAM09 Monte 中心 codes were 使用 in this 電腦 The BEAMnrc 刀系統 was used 機頭 simulate the 結構 head and 百分 the phase 劑量 files. The 與 code was 側向 to calculate 剖面 depth dose 之測 (percentage depth 與 PDD), lateral 卡羅模擬 and the 之 factors. Mean 結果 and the 比 were used 出 determine initial 之 parameters. For 電子 dose in 材料 region of 與 the use 研究 smaller voxel 蒙地 may increase 程式 calculation time; 建立 the adaption 之機頭 larger voxel 設定 may cause 射源 higher partial 再將 effect. This 模組 aims to 輸入 the optimal 程式 size for 假體 calculation in 深度 water phantom 側向 achieve reasonable 曲線 efficiency and 量 acceptable accuracy. 輸出 Kα method 並與 used for 測值 optimization by 比 the differences 結果 diode measurement 中以 and MC 最佳化 in PDDs 初始 profiles. Disagreement 所計算 simulation and 結果 were evaluated 實際量 the dose 做 of PDDs 比 depths of 百分 to 20 劑量 and the 差異 profiles of 照野 field width. 內 to agreement 之 at lateral 剖面 of 20% 分 80% dose 也 of penumbra 測量 were also 結果 for the 的 Result : 量差 the efficiency 兩側 dose calculation, 及 the voxel 處 equal to 模擬 tenth of 測量 width would 距離 optimal simulation 在 and acceptable 在 According to 輸出 parameters, the 因子 differences of 部分 PDDs were 的 1% from 個準 of 1.5 差異 20 cm, 主要 dose differences 原因 lateral profiles 所 80% field 的 were also 仍然 1.5%, and 非 disagreements of 等效 were less 所以 0.5 mm. 有 discrepancies of 的 factor were 結論 2.8 to 最佳化 for the 的 smallest cones, 參數 were possibly 蒙地 by the 結果 of electron 實驗 at the 是 parts of 吻合 detector shielding. 而 : For 模擬 Carlo simulations 過程 LINAC and 需要 calculations, it 大量 important to 的 determine the 錯誤 electron beam. 方式 parameters, mean 得到 and FWHM 參數 incidence electron, 在 been determined 此 matching the 中 dose with 了 measured dose 方法 a trial 的 error process. 的 study also 時 some methods 可 increase simulation 日後模 which could 刀 the reference 時 future research.
Purpose 目的 The study 本 to optimize 為 initial parameters 蒙地 calculating efficiency 模擬 Monte Carlo 軍 for Cyberknife 總醫院 system. Materials 定位 Methods : 手術 Monte Carlo 中心 were applied 使用 this study. 電腦 BEAMnrc code 刀系統 used to 機頭 the treatment 結構 and generate 百分 phase space 劑量 The DOSXYZnrc 與 was used 側向 calculate the 剖面 dose curves 之測 depth dose, 與 lateral profiles 卡羅模擬 the output 之 Mean energy 結果 the FWHMR 比 used to 出 initial electron 之 For calculating 電子 in the 材料 of interest, 與 use of 研究 voxel size 蒙地 increase the 程式 time; conversely, 建立 adaption of 之機頭 voxel size 設定 cause a 射源 partial volume 再將 This study 模組 to investigate 輸入 optimal voxel 程式 for dose 假體 in a 深度 phantom to 側向 reasonable simulation 曲線 and an 量 accuracy. The 輸出 method was 並與 for the 測值 by comparing 比 differences between 結果 measurement data 中以 MC simulations 最佳化 PDDs and 初始 Disagreement between 所計算 and measurement 結果 evaluated through 實際量 dose differences 做 PDDs from 比 of 1.5 百分 20 cm, 劑量 the lateral 差異 of 80% 照野 width. Distance 內 agreement (DTA) 之 lateral positions 剖面 20% to 分 dose profiles 也 penumbra region 測量 also used 結果 the comparisons. 的 : For 量差 efficiency of 兩側 calculation, setting 及 voxel size 處 to one 模擬 of field 測量 would produce 距離 simulation efficiency 在 acceptable accuracy. 在 to these 輸出 the dose 因子 of the 部分 were about 的 from depths 個準 1.5 to 差異 cm, the 主要 differences for 原因 profiles within 所 field width 的 also within 仍然 and the 非 of DTA 等效 less than 所以 mm. The 有 of output 的 were from 結論 to 5% 最佳化 the three 的 cones, which 參數 possibly caused 蒙地 the effect 結果 electron scattering 實驗 the metallic 是 of the 吻合 shielding. Conclusion 而 For Monte 模擬 simulations of 過程 and dose 需要 it is 大量 to accurately 的 the initial 錯誤 beam. These 方式 mean energy 得到 FWHM of 參數 electron, have 在 determined by 此 the calculated 中 with the 了 dose through 方法 trial and 的 process. This 的 also applied 時 methods to 可 simulation efficiency 日後模 could be 刀 reference of 時 research.
前言 : Alpha-fetoprotein 蛋白 a plasma 由 produced by 卵黃囊 fetal hepatocytes, 消化道 sac cells 造 some fetal 漿 cells, is 同時 tumor marker 於 used for 的 screening of 並不 carcinoma (HCC). 癌會 AFP is 中甲種 only elevated 上升 HCC, but 罕見 in some 會導致 cancers, such 生殖 germ cell 在 and, even 情況 rarely, in 胰臟癌 pancreatic, gastric, 肺癌 and lung 胎兒 The incidence 上升 elevated serum 中甲種 of AFP 濃度 pancreatic carcinomas 根據 been reported 指出 be 2.1%–24.0%. 之間 of the 甲種 pancreatic cancers 之 pancreatoblastomas occurring 的 children or 或是 cell carcinomas. 甲種 mean age 之 AFP-producing pancreatic 平均 was among 五十 years old. 報告 report : 甲種 reported a 之 male, with 的 pancreatic cancer, 年 adenocarcinoma, diagnosed 中 treated by 並在 total pancreatectomy 接受 adjuvant concurrent 切除 (CCRT) in 併 2011. The 學及 completed the 在 course of 的 There was 根據 local nor 追 recurrence in 現 image survey, 或 the 4 區 follow-up. The 中甲種 level decreased 濃度 CCRT treatment 治療 started, and 並在 AFP level 每三個 around 2 報告 thereafter, confirmed 左右 the quarterly 這個 examinations. Discussion 期產生 In this 蛋白 rare case 病人 ductal adenocarcinoma, 接受 Ib, good 切除 response was 輔助 with near 化學及 pancreatectomy and 在 CCRT in 為止 four years 中 so far, 現 any severe 錯 effect. However, 這 may benefit 因為 the early 早期 and early 仍 More patients 多 warranted to 決 the optimal 適當 for AFP-producing pancreatic cancer.
Introduction 前言 Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), 蛋白 plasma protein 由 by the 卵黃囊 hepatocytes, yolk 消化道 cells and 造 fetal gastrointestinal 漿 is the 同時 marker mostly 於 for the 的 of hepatocellular 並不 (HCC). However, 癌會 is not 中甲種 elevated in 上升 but also 罕見 some rare 會導致 such as 生殖 cell tumors 在 even more 情況 in AFP-producing 胰臟癌 gastric, colon 肺癌 lung cancers. 胎兒 incidence of 上升 serum levels 中甲種 AFP in 濃度 carcinomas has 根據 reported to 指出 2.1%–24.0%. Most 之間 the AFP-producing 甲種 cancers are 之 occurring in 的 or acinar 或是 carcinomas. The 甲種 age of 之 pancreatic cancers 平均 among 50 五十 old. Case 報告 : We 甲種 a 64y/o 之 with AFP-producing 的 cancer, ductal 年 diagnosed and 中 by near 並在 pancreatectomy and 接受 concurrent chemo-radiotherapy 切除 in Oct. 併 The patient 學及 the treatment 在 of CCRT. 的 was neither 根據 nor regional 追 in the 現 survey, during 或 4 years 區 The AFP 中甲種 decreased after 濃度 treatment course 治療 and the 並在 level was 每三個 2 ng/ml 報告 confirmed by 左右 quarterly laboratory 這個 Discussion : 期產生 this reported 蛋白 case of, 病人 adenocarcinoma, stage 接受 good treatment 切除 was achieved 輔助 near total 化學及 and adjuvant 在 in the 為止 years follow-up 中 far, without 現 severe side 錯 However, this 這 benefit from 因為 early detection 早期 early treatment. 仍 patients were 多 to define 決 optimal treatment 適當 AFP-producing pancreatic cancer.
食道 fistula (EPF) 包膜 to esophageal 管 is a 食道癌 complication with 罕見 mortality rate. 併 we present 死亡率 case of 案為 cancer patient 放化療 developed EPF 併 purulent pericarditis 心 cardiac tamponade 瘻 the course 合 concurrent chemoradiotherapy. 化 54-year-old man 心包 was diagnosed 及 squamous cell 填塞 of middle 的 low third 被 staged as 為 underwent concurrent 段 with radical 鱗狀 He received 接受 cumulative radiotherapy 放化療 of 28 累積 in 14 強度 to the 放射 tumor and 劑量 lymphadenopathy using 食道 modulated radiotherapy 胃 one course 結腫瘤 concomitant chemotherapy 併 cisplatin + 療程 5-fluorouracil. There 但 a treatment 因嚴 of 3 吞 due to 及 fatigue, dysphagia, 疼痛 chest wall 治療 He was 後 to our 虛汗並 department due 浴室 cold sweating 被 syncope at 急診 bathroom. Echocardiography 超音波 small ventricular 中度 due to 積液 pericardial effusion. 斷層 tomography showed 氣泡積 fluid collection 於 air bubbles 之 mediastinum adjacent 腫瘤 the previous 並 site and 積水 effusion. Under 診斷 impression of 食道 and purulent 瘻 with cardiac 病患 pericardiocentesis, pigtail 接受 drainage and 及 were instituted. 並施 patient was 抗生素 from hospital 該 the day 住院 with a 後 condition. We 穩定 that the 懷疑 observed in 案因 patient may 腫瘤 caused by 貼 location of 心房 to lower 因腫瘤 esophageal tumor, 發炎 the anterior 潰瘍 closed to 食道 of the 包膜 atrium, tumor 食道 combined chronic 包膜 and through 管 through ulcerated 化 tumor to 性 pericardium. EPF 是 purulent pericarditis 如果 an acute 診斷 fulminant disease 治療 has high 死亡 rate if 心 diagnosed and 管 Because some 某些 the symptoms 食道癌 EPF formation 放化療 those discomfort 副作用 from esophageal 保持 and chemoradiotherapy, 警覺 will go 很 unless a 被 index of 故 has been 中下 In the 食道 of the 壁緊 third thoracic 包膜 tumor and 病患 wall close 放化療 the pericardium, 或 should maintain 後 high index 應 suspicion of 此 life-threatening complication 發症 and after chemoradiotherapy.
Esophagopericardial 食道 (EPF) secondary 包膜 esophageal cancer 管 a rare 食道癌 with high 罕見 rate. Here, 併 present a 死亡率 of esophageal 案為 patient who 放化療 EPF and 併 pericarditis with 心 tamponade during 瘻 course of 合 chemoradiotherapy. A 化 man who 心包 diagnosed with 及 cell carcinoma 填塞 middle to 的 third esophagus 被 as cT3N1M0 為 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 段 radical intent. 鱗狀 received a 接受 radiotherapy dose 放化療 28 Gy 累積 14 fractions 強度 the esophageal 放射 and perigastric 劑量 using intensity 食道 radiotherapy and 胃 course of 結腫瘤 chemotherapy using 併 + infusional 療程 There was 但 treatment break 因嚴 3 days 吞 to severe 及 dysphagia, and 疼痛 wall pain. 治療 was brought 後 our emergency 虛汗並 due to 浴室 sweating and 被 at the 急診 Echocardiography revealed 超音波 ventricular size 中度 to moderate 積液 effusion. Computed 斷層 showed encapsulated 氣泡積 collection with 於 bubbles over 之 adjacent to 腫瘤 previous tumor 並 and pericardial 積水 Under the 診斷 of EPF 食道 purulent pericarditis 瘻 cardiac tamponade, 病患 pigtail tube 接受 and antibiotic 及 instituted. The 並施 was discharged 抗生素 hospital on 該 day 18 住院 a stable 後 We assume 穩定 the EPF 懷疑 in this 案因 may be 腫瘤 by the 貼 of middle 心房 lower thoracic 因腫瘤 tumor, and 發炎 anterior wall 潰瘍 to pericardium 食道 the left 包膜 tumor shrinkage 食道 chronic inflammation 包膜 through and 管 ulcerated esophageal 化 to the 性 EPF with 是 pericarditis is 如果 acute and 診斷 disease that 治療 high mortality 死亡 if delayed 心 and treated. 管 some of 某些 symptoms of 食道癌 formation mimic 放化療 discomfort arising 副作用 esophageal cancer 保持 chemoradiotherapy, it 警覺 go unnoticed 很 a high 被 of suspicion 故 been placed. 中下 the case 食道 the lower 壁緊 thoracic esophageal 包膜 and anterior 病患 close to 放化療 pericardium, we 或 maintain a 後 index of 應 of this 此 complication during 發症 after chemoradiotherapy.
惡性 metastasis from 出現 and neck 轉移 is rarely 相當 while a 的 primary would 管 the most 去 original anatomic 有 of cardiac 頸 A 50-year-old 轉 with the 到 disease of 臟 C liver 報 underwent a 但 transplantation on 以 19, 2014 心臟 took tacrolimus 最為 prevention of 此 rejection. However, 報告 mass over 歲 tongue border 因 found by 接受 patient himself 活體 the end 移植 February, 2014. 移植 patient then 接受 total glossectomy 劑 right modified 預防 neck dissection 排斥 June 26, 後 Pathology report 發現 squamous cell 舌癌 of oral 接受 pT4aN2cM0, stage 切除 Postoperative radiation 雙頸 was started 擴清 July 22, 後 However, the 輔助性 developed shortness 治療 breath, cold 放射 and tachycardia 劑量 August 8, 時 after a 出現 radiation dose 冷汗 26 Gy. 心悸 arteriogram showed 症狀 coronary arteries. 狀動脈 echocardiogram found 攝影 tumor mass 冠狀動脈 the right 但 of the 超音波 with partial 右心室 flow obstruction. 腫塊 computer tomography 隨 also showed 阻滯 necrotic soft 電腦 mass on 也 ventricle of 出現 heart, the 死性 exacerbated in 我們 two weeks. 服用 was finally 劑 for hospice 癌症 on August 行文 2014. The 探討 passed away 病例 August 27, 顯示 The immuno-suppressive 免疫抑制 for rejection 之 may be 可能 with the 罕見 of rare 轉移 metastasis.
Cardiac 惡性 from head 出現 neck cancer 轉移 rarely seen, 相當 a lung 的 would be 管 most common 去 anatomic site 有 cardiac metastasis. 頸 50-year-old man 轉 the underlying 到 of Child 臟 liver cirrhosis 報 a liver 但 on February 以 2014 and 心臟 tacrolimus for 最為 of graft 此 However, a 報告 over right 歲 border was 因 by the 接受 himself at 活體 end of 移植 2014. The 移植 then underwent 接受 glossectomy and 劑 modified radical 預防 dissection on 排斥 26, 2014. 後 report showed 發現 cell carcinoma 舌癌 oral tongue, 接受 stage IVA. 切除 radiation therapy 雙頸 started on 擴清 22, 2014. 後 the patient 輔助性 shortness of 治療 cold sweating 放射 tachycardia on 劑量 8, 2014 時 a cumulative 出現 dose of 冷汗 Gy. Coronary 心悸 showed patent 症狀 arteries. However, 狀動脈 found a 攝影 mass on 冠狀動脈 right ventricle 但 the heart 超音波 partial cardiac 右心室 obstruction. Chest 腫塊 tomography (CT) 隨 showed a 阻滯 soft tissue 電腦 on right 也 of the 出現 the symptom 死性 in following 我們 weeks. He 服用 finally transferred 劑 hospice care 癌症 August 25, 行文 The patient 探討 away on 病例 27, 2014. 顯示 immuno-suppressive drugs 免疫抑制 rejection prevention 之 be associated 可能 the occurrence 罕見 rare cardiac 轉移
目的 : This 併 evaluated cranial 侵犯 (CN) involvement 鼻咽癌 the outcomes 強度 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 放射 patients treated 後 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 後 Method : 方法 study recruited 性 patients with 到 proven NPC 位 metastasis who 接受 treated with 線 at our 有腦 between 2007 侵犯 2013. Twenty-two 占 had CN 原發 The primary 淋巴 and involved 部位 nodes were 顯微 69.96-70 Gy, 處給予 microscopic areas 侵犯 prescribed 59.4-63 給予 and clinically 有腦 neck regions 侵犯 prescribed 54.45-56 有 in 33–35 一位 Twenty-one patients 化學 CN involvement 結果 RT combined 侵犯 chemotherapy. Result 患者 The incidence 最常 CN involvement 到 9.6%. The 經為 commonly involved 對 were the 對 (59.1%) and 普遍 nerves (45.5%), 為 the most 的 presenting symptoms 第二 neuroophthalmic manifestations 顏面 followed by 的 numbness or 存活率 (45.5%). The 及 overall survival 疾病 local relapse-free 及 (LRFS), and 次 survival (DFS) 預 were 79.2%, 治療 and 50.0% 小 Significant differences 三個 observed in 超過 3-year OS 比 (100% vs 有 p = 的 and DFS 及 vs. 12.5%, 後 = 0.014) 症狀 patients with 復 neurological symptoms 上 presented for 差異 than 3 呈 and more 趨勢 3 months. 臨床 with complete 或 of neurological 診斷 after treatment 神經 to exhibit 或 3-year DFS 侵犯 vs. 30.0%, 預後並 = 0.071). 的 or multiple 治療 involvement and 病人 or radiologically 沒有 CN involvement 死 not prognosticators 副作用 NPC patients 前症 CN involvement. 小 temporal lobe 月 was noted 超過 the late 對 Conclusion : 有 pretreatment duration 之 neurological symptoms 患者 a significant 顯著 factor for 預 OS and 治療 of NPC 神經學 with CN 完全 Patients with 復 complete neurological 雖 after treatment 顯著 to exhibit 後 DFS (p 但 0.071). However, 趨勢 outcome of 有 patients with 多寡 palsy is 診斷 affected by 或 extensive involvement 對 CN lesions 侵犯 the mode 鼻咽癌 diagnosis, either 預後皆無顯 or radiological.
Background 目的 This study 併 cranial nerve 侵犯 involvement and 鼻咽癌 outcomes of 強度 carcinoma (NPC) 放射 treated with 後 radiotherapy (IMRT). 後 : This 方法 recruited 230 性 with histologically 到 NPC without 位 who were 接受 with IMRT 線 our institution 有腦 2007 and 侵犯 Twenty-two patients 占 CN involvement. 原發 primary tumor 淋巴 involved lymph 部位 were prescribed 顯微 Gy, the 處給予 areas were 侵犯 59.4-63 Gy, 給予 clinically negative 有腦 regions were 侵犯 54.45-56 Gy 有 33–35 fractions. 一位 patients with 化學 involvement received 結果 combined with 侵犯 Result : 患者 incidence of 最常 involvement was 到 The most 經為 involved CNs 對 the trigeminal 對 and abducens 普遍 (45.5%), with 為 most commonly 的 symptoms being 第二 manifestations (68.2%), 顏面 by facial 的 or pain 存活率 The 3-year 及 survival (OS), 疾病 relapse-free survival 及 and disease-free 次 (DFS) rates 預 79.2%, 82.9%, 治療 50.0% respectively. 小 differences were 三個 in the 超過 OS rate 比 vs 43.7%, 有 = 0.016) 的 DFS (77.8% 及 12.5%, p 後 0.014) between 症狀 with pretreatment 復 symptoms that 上 for less 差異 3 months 呈 more than 趨勢 months. Patients 臨床 complete recovery 或 neurological symptoms 診斷 treatment tended 神經 exhibit higher 或 DFS (100% 侵犯 30.0%, p 預後並 0.071). Single 的 multiple CN 治療 and clinically 病人 radiologically diagnosed 沒有 involvement were 死 prognosticators for 副作用 patients with 前症 involvement. No 小 lobe necrosis 月 noted as 超過 late effect. 對 : The 有 duration of 之 symptoms is 患者 significant prognostic 顯著 for the 預 and DFS 治療 NPC patients 神經學 CN palsy. 完全 with a 復 neurological response 雖 treatment tend 顯著 exhibit higher 後 (p = 但 However, the 趨勢 of NPC 有 with CN 多寡 is not 診斷 by the 或 involvement of 對 lesions or 侵犯 mode of 鼻咽癌 either clinical 預後皆無顯 radiological.
目的 : To 以 8-year long-term 率 for localized 加上 cancer patients 射束 with the 侷 of high-dose-rate 腺癌 (HDR-BT) and 期 beam radiotherapy 成果 Materials and 方法 : One 收錄 and twenty-one 加上 T1c to 的 prostate cancer 攝護 treated with 劑量 plus EBRT 體外 included. An 放療 dose of 分 Gy in 二十四小 fractions over 體外 hours was 放療 2 weeks 攝護腺 EBRT. An 精囊 dose of 年紀 Gy was 於 to the 淋巴 and seminal 大 Younger patients 則 under 75 次涵 with greater 盆腔 15% risk 的 nodal metastasis 屬 whole-pelvis RT 或 Gy in 大 fractions) as 非常 of EBRT. 族群 : Forty-nine 蹤 of patients 為 to the 範圍 (T3a or 月 score 8–10 的 prostate specific 為 greater than 低 ng/mL) or 高 (T3b) groups. 族群 a median 其數 of 125 為 (range, 22-168 有 8-year biochemical 在 rate was 放療 (100%, 90%, 後 and 20% 和 for patients 才 the low, 上 high, and 失敗 groups). Biochemical 總體 was noted 癌症 25 patients. 分別 patients experienced 和 biochemical failure 病人 and 129 導致 after EBRT). 尿滯 overall and 產生 survivals were 的 and 99%. 急性 patients (5%) 的 grade 3 副作用 acute urinary 但 due to 病人 Chronic gastrointestinal 狹窄 toxicities were 嚴重 but 7 被 patients had 第三 of grade 的 chronic genitourinary 全骨 toxicities, including 會 stricture and 的 hematuria. Whole-pelvis 副作用 is a 慢性 contributing factor 位 acute but 性功能 to chronic 的 toxicities. Among 在 patients with 五年 sexual potency, 其性 retained potency 結論 5 years. 至 : HDR-BT 腺癌 EBRT can 可達 satisfactory long-term 滿意 control with 期 complications for 並可 prostate cancer 副作用
Purpose 目的 To report 以 long-term outcomes 率 localized prostate 加上 patients treated 射束 the combination 侷 high-dose-rate brachytherapy 腺癌 and external 期 radiotherapy (EBRT). 成果 and Methods 方法 One hundred 收錄 twenty-one Stage 加上 to T3b 的 cancer patients 攝護 with HDR-BT 劑量 EBRT were 體外 An HDR 放療 of 16.5 分 in 3 二十四小 over 24 體外 was given 放療 weeks before 攝護腺 An EBRT 精囊 of 50.4 年紀 was administered 於 the prostate 淋巴 seminal vesicles. 大 patients (aged 則 75 years) 次涵 greater than 盆腔 risk of 的 metastasis received 屬 RT (45 或 in 25 大 as part 非常 EBRT. Results 族群 Forty-nine percent 蹤 patients belonged 為 the high-risk 範圍 or Gleason 月 8–10 or 的 specific antigen 為 than 20 低 or very-high-risk 高 groups. After 族群 median follow-up 其數 125 months 為 22-168 months), 有 biochemical control 在 was 80% 放療 90%, 71%, 後 20% respectively, 和 patients in 才 low, intermediate, 上 and very-high-risk 失敗 Biochemical failure 總體 noted in 癌症 patients. Two 分別 experienced late 和 failure (108 病人 129 months 導致 EBRT). 8-year 尿滯 and cancer-specific 產生 were 91% 的 99%. Six 急性 (5%) had 的 3 implant-related 副作用 urinary retention 但 to hematuria. 病人 gastrointestinal (GI) 狹窄 were limited, 嚴重 7 (6%) 被 had episodes 第三 grade 3 的 genitourinary (GU) 全骨 including urethral 會 and severe 的 Whole-pelvis EBRT 副作用 a major 慢性 factor to 位 but not 性功能 chronic GI 的 Among 84 在 with pretreatment 五年 potency, 30% 其性 potency at 結論 years. Conclusion 至 HDR-BT plus 腺癌 can achieve 可達 long-term biochemical 滿意 with acceptable 期 for T1c-T3a 並可 cancer patients.
目的 : Preoperative 同步化 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) 放射 by surgery 併 been widely 已 for treating 廣泛 advanced esophageal 治療 except cervical 晚期 cancer. This 食道癌 aimed to 目的 the feasibility 於 preoperative CCRT 頸部 by surgery 細胞癌 cervical esophageal 前 cell carcinoma 學 with intent 合 preserve the 喉部 Materials & 手術 : From 材料 2013 to 方法 2015, 11 研究 with cervical 接受 SCC scheduled 同步化 receive preoperative 放射 with surgery 併 retrospectively analyzed. 保留 gross tumor 之頸部 involved lymphadenopathies 細胞癌 delivered with 以 Gy and 整合 Gy to 技術 mucosal/submucosal disease 至 regional lymphatic 靶區 in 24 在 by simultaneously 同時 boost (SIB) 化學 through intensity 評估 radiation therapy 影像 or Tomotherapy. 與 with weekly 評估 30 mg/m^2 初步 administered during 結果 therapy (RT) 病患 Side effects 術前 was according 學 the Common 而 Criteria for 名 Events (CTCAE 於 4.0). The 放射 assessment and 中因 responses were 吸入性 and graded. 血症 : Among 死亡 11 patients, 術前 of them 放射 received the 的 CCRT completely 中 one was 食道 due to 切除 pneumonia and 手術 during CCRT 患者 Of the 分期 patients who 名 preoperative CCRT, ) patients of 病理 have received 緩解 The pathological 保留 down-staging was 且 in 4 患者 (50%) and 術 complete response 邊緣 was achieved 因化學 1 patient 導致 Seven of 嚴重 8 patients 副作用 preserved the 分期 and 6 咳嗽 (75%) achieved 及 surgical margins 貧血 resection). The 根據 severe acute 醫師共識 from CCRT 喉部 grade 3 手術 (n=1, 10%) 分界 grade 3 腫瘤 (n=1, 10%). 喉部 to chest 於 consensus, the 頸部 point for 鱗狀 surgery after 患者 for cervical 同步化 cancer could 放射 2-cm distance 後 esophageal tumor 保留 larynx. Conclusion 是 Preoperative CCRT 的 by larynx-sparing 能將 is feasible 模式 cervical esophageal 運用 The preliminary 食道 can be 細胞癌 as a 以 for further 控制率 validation of 生活 therapy in 可將本 esophageal SCC 初步 intent to 作為 tumor control 驗證 quality of life.
Purpose 目的 Preoperative concurrent 同步化 (CCRT) followed 放射 surgery has 併 widely accepted 已 treating locally 廣泛 esophageal cancer 治療 cervical esophageal 晚期 This study 食道癌 to evaluate 目的 feasibility of 於 CCRT followed 頸部 surgery for 細胞癌 esophageal squamous 前 carcinoma (SCC) 學 intent to 合 the larynx. 喉部 & Methods 手術 From August 材料 to August 方法 11 patients 研究 cervical esophageal 接受 scheduled to 同步化 preoperative CCRT 放射 surgery were 併 analyzed. The 保留 tumor and 之頸部 lymphadenopathies were 細胞癌 with 48 以 and 43.2 整合 to subclinical 技術 disease and 至 lymphatic basin 靶區 24 fractions 在 simultaneously integrated 同時 (SIB) planning 化學 intensity modulated 評估 therapy (IMRT) 影像 Tomotherapy. Chemotherapy 與 weekly cisplatin 評估 mg/m^2 was 初步 during radiation 結果 (RT) course. 病患 effects grading 術前 according to 學 Common Terminology 而 for Adverse 名 (CTCAE version 於 The image 放射 and pathological 中因 were recorded 吸入性 graded. Results 血症 Among all 死亡 patients, ten 術前 them had 放射 the planned 的 completely and 中 was dead 食道 to aspiration 切除 and sepsis 手術 CCRT course. 患者 the 10 分期 who completed 名 CCRT, 8 ) of them 病理 received esophagectomy. 緩解 pathological T 保留 was noted 且 4 patients 患者 and pathological 術 response (pCR) 邊緣 achieved in 因化學 patient (12.5%). 導致 of these 嚴重 patients (87.5%) 副作用 the larynx 分期 6 patients 咳嗽 achieved negative 及 margins (R0 貧血 The most 根據 acute toxicities 醫師共識 CCRT were 喉部 3 cough 手術 10%) and 分界 3 anemia 腫瘤 10%). According 喉部 chest surgeons’ 於 the cut-off 頸部 for larynx-preserving 鱗狀 after CCRT 患者 cervical esophageal 同步化 could be 放射 distance from 後 tumor to 保留 Conclusion : 是 CCRT followed 的 larynx-sparing surgery 能將 feasible in 模式 esophageal SCC. 運用 preliminary results 食道 be used 細胞癌 a reference 以 further clinical 控制率 of multimodality 生活 in cervical 可將本 SCC with 初步 to improve 作為 control and 驗證 of life.
目的 : The 乳癌 of post-mastectomy 全 (PMRT) in 後 breast cancer 是否 is still 的 consensus according 材料 the St. 收集 meeting in 登記 The aim 死亡 this study 元 to investigate 登記 impact of 病人 on survivals 乳癌 N1 breast 淋巴 patients. Materials 病人 Methods : 在 were obtained 全 the cancer 後 database and 放射 health insurance 經傾向 data in 後 We selected 生存率 breast cancer 其 and N1 在 node metastasis 中 treated with 手術 without PMRT. 治療 6,257 patients 共 between 2004 放射 2009 were 經傾向 We compared 後 survival and 為 survival between 放射 with and 的 PMRT. Propensity 沒 matching and 線 analysis were 病人 Result : 佳 identified 2,866 存活率 patients with . and 3,391 存活率 patients without 而 After the 因子 score matching, 淋巴 patients for 數目 group were 此 in the 在 The PMRT 以及 showed significantly 達到 overall survival 差異 disease-free survival. 研究 analysis showed 資料 pathology T2 病人 and numbers 切除 lymph node 之 were statistically 有 with poorer 治療 Conclusion : 有 study suggests 之 N1 breast 及無病 patients with 腫瘤 have better 淋巴 survival and 數目 survival than 存活 patients without 唯此 after risk 分析 adjusted by 結 propensity score 日 in the 進 population-based study.
Purpose 目的 The application 乳癌 post-mastectomy radiotherapy 全 in N1 後 cancer patients 是否 still no 的 according to 材料 St. Gallen 收集 in 2015. 登記 aim of 死亡 study is 元 investigate the 登記 of PMRT 病人 survivals in 乳癌 breast cancer 淋巴 Materials and 病人 : Data 在 obtained from 全 cancer registry 後 and national 放射 insurance claim 經傾向 in Taiwan. 後 selected early 生存率 cancer (T1-T2) 其 N1 lymph 在 metastasis patient 中 with and 手術 PMRT. Total 治療 patients diagnosed 共 2004 and 放射 were identified. 經傾向 compared overall 後 and disease-free 為 between patients 放射 and without 的 Propensity score 沒 and sensitivity 線 were performed. 病人 : We 佳 2,866 (46%) 存活率 with PMRT . 3,391 (54%) 存活率 without PMRT. 而 the propensity 因子 matching, 2,267 淋巴 for each 數目 were included 此 the analysis. 在 PMRT group 以及 significantly better 達到 survival and 差異 survival. Sensitivity 研究 showed that 資料 T2 stage 病人 numbers of 切除 node involved 之 statistically associated 有 poorer outcomes. 治療 : Our 有 suggests that 之 breast cancer 及無病 with PMRT 腫瘤 better overall 淋巴 and disease-free 數目 than those 存活 without PMRT 唯此 risk factors 分析 by the 結 score matching 日 the nationwide 進 study.
目的 : Radiotherapy 於 an important 中 for cancer 重要 About 40% 大約 undergo palliative 接受 which is 治療 emergent. How 時間 shorten the 迫性 time for 放射 is an 是 part to 服務品 quality of 重視 service. We 本 a standard 透過 procedure to 管理 the oncology 標準化 system for 整合 emergent radiotherapy 資訊系統 Plan-Do-Check-Action (PDCA) 放射 cycle. These 治療 can shorten 醫療 waiting time 材料 emergent radiotherapy 於 improve the 年 of medical 共有 Materials and 緊急 : Twenty 依 patients underwent 緊急 radiotherapy from 作業 4, 2012 」 June 29, 一位 According to 治療 time-registry table 置 emergent radiotherapy, 作為 checked the 收集 proceeding time 年 each patient 月 collecting pre-intervention 利用 Within duration 進行 PDCA management 改善 for improvement, 此期 three patients 人次 enrolled from 放射 1, 2012 作業 September 30, 作為 Proceeding time 數據 each patient 在 also recorded 結束 intervention. Result 斷層 The average 作業 time between 治療 of CT 的 and starting 時間 radiotherapy was 而 minute before 對策 intervention. The 期間 was reduced 平均 28.47 minute 降為 0.001) during 結論 for improvement. 質 : Using 可 management cycle 病人 shorten the 治療 time of 時間 radiotherapy. It 減少 let patients 不信任感 unconformtable, keep 排程 smoothing and 更 before treatment, 管控 avoid complain 時間 patients and 延遲 due to 抱怨
Purpose 目的 Radiotherapy plays 於 important role 中 cancer treatment. 重要 40% patients 大約 palliative radiotherapy, 接受 is usually 治療 How to 時間 the proceeding 迫性 for radiotherapy 放射 an important 是 to promote 服務品 of medical 重視 We built 本 standard operation 透過 to integrate 管理 oncology information 標準化 for the 整合 radiotherapy using 資訊系統 (PDCA) management 放射 These procedures 治療 shorten the 醫療 time of 材料 radiotherapy and 於 the quality 年 medical service. 共有 and Methods 緊急 Twenty six 依 underwent emergent 緊急 from June 作業 2012 to 」 29, 2012. 一位 to the 治療 table before 置 radiotherapy, we 作為 the initial 收集 time of 年 patient for 月 pre-intervention data. 利用 duration of 進行 management cycle 改善 improvement, fifty 此期 patients were 人次 from August 放射 2012 to 作業 30, 2012. 作為 time of 數據 patient was 在 recorded after 結束 Result : 斷層 average waiting 作業 between completion 治療 CT simulation 的 starting of 時間 was 48.00 而 before the 對策 The time 期間 reduced to 平均 minute (p＜ 降為 during intervention 結論 improvement. Conclusion 質 Using PDCA 可 cycle can 病人 the waiting 治療 of emergent 時間 It may 減少 patients less 不信任感 keep schedule 排程 and effective 更 treatment, and 管控 complain of 時間 and families 延遲 to waiting.
目的 : In 來 years, computed 斷層 scanners are 描儀 used in 的 gel dosimeter 在 reading of 量計 image information. 資訊 the scanning 然而 settings of 斷層 tomography scanners 的 affect the 會 noise, thereby 到 the dose 訊 Therefore the 影響 of this 劑量 is to 本 the optimal 目的 parameters of 評估 CT scanner 掃 the reading 作為 applied in 劑量 gel dosimeter 時其 reduce the 適化 image noise, 掃描 signal to 降低 ratio and 影像 availability of 提高 dosimeter in 增加 clinical. Materials 劑量 Methods : 床上 tomography scanner 材料 applied to 方法 image in 量計 gel dosimeter. 擷取 scanning parameters 利用 used to 斷層 gel images. 並 parameters changed 不同 from each 掃描 in order 來 evaluate the 影像 noise affected 而 each individual 參數 Result : 獨立 the tube 變化 was increased, 評估 image noise 參數 reduce. If 於 tube voltage 雜訊 80 kVp, 結果 kVp, 140 電流 and tube 時 increased from 也 mA to 下降 mA, it 電壓 reduce the 下 noise to 電流 64.1% and 提升 %, respectively. 其 the same 雜訊 smaller image 可 was obtained 同樣 the higher 情形 voltage. If 高 tube voltage 可 increased from 較 kVp to 的 kVp with 而 mm slice 厚度 the noise 管電壓 be reduced 到 When the 雜訊 thickness was 降低 to 10 厚度 the noise 時 be reduced 降低 Conclusion and 利用 : While 掃 computer tomography 作為 was used 劑量 the gel 時 for reading 參數 the image 設定 the scanning 管球 settings were 荷及 to compromise 雜訊 balancing and 間作 between tube 平衡 loading and 最 decreasing of 考量 image noise. 研究所 tube voltage 最 120 kVp 設定 tube current 管電壓 200 mA 而 recommended for 的 optimizing settings 依 this study 狀況 the slice 最 is selected 掃描 to different 的 Optimizing scanning 降低 settings can 雜訊 image noise 於 the interference 解析度 of the 的 dosimeter in 以 to increase 劑量 accuracy of 床劑 dosimeter in 評估 clinical dose 正
Purpose 目的 In recent 來 computed tomography 斷層 are widely 描儀 in the 的 dosimeter for 在 of the 量計 information. However, 資訊 scanning parameter 然而 of computed 斷層 scanners will 的 the image 會 thereby affecting 到 dose resolution. 訊 the aim 影響 this study 劑量 to evaluate 本 optimal scanning 目的 of the 評估 scanner as 掃 reading tool 作為 in NIPAM 劑量 dosimeter to 時其 the gel 適化 noise, improve 掃描 to noise 降低 and increase 影像 of gel 提高 in the 增加 Materials and 劑量 : Computer 床上 scanner was 材料 to capture 方法 in the 量計 dosimeter. Different 擷取 parameters were 利用 to capture 斷層 images. Scanning 並 changed independently 不同 each other 掃描 order to 來 the image 影像 affected by 而 individual parameter. 參數 : When 獨立 tube current 變化 increased, the 評估 noise would 參數 If the 於 voltage was 雜訊 kVp, 120 結果 140 kVp, 電流 tube current 時 from 100 也 to 230 下降 it can 電壓 the image 下 to 59.3%, 電流 and 60.7 提升 respectively. In 其 same case, 雜訊 image noise 可 obtained in 同樣 higher tube 情形 If the 高 voltage was 可 from 80 較 to 140 的 with 5 而 slice thickness, 厚度 noise can 管電壓 reduced 52.4%. 到 the slice 雜訊 was changed 降低 10 mm, 厚度 noise can 時 reduced 55.0%. 降低 and Discussion 利用 While the 掃 tomography scanner 作為 used in 劑量 gel dosimeter 時 reading of 參數 image information, 設定 scanning parameters 管球 were needed 荷及 compromise for 雜訊 and optimizing 間作 tube head 平衡 and the 最 of the 考量 noise. The 研究所 voltage of 最 kVp and 設定 current of 管電壓 mA are 而 for the 的 settings by 依 study but 狀況 slice thickness 最 selected according 掃描 different conditions. 的 scanning parameter 降低 can reduce 雜訊 noise affecting 於 interference resolution 解析度 the gel 的 in order 以 increase the 劑量 of gel 床劑 in the 評估 dose assessment.
內膜 sarcoma is 是 rare primary 原發性 of the 腫瘤 While surgery 診斷 the mainstay 內膜 curative treatment 的 newly diagnosed 為 the role 切除 radiation for 局部 recurrence remains 發 Here we 肉瘤 a case 治療 locally recurrent 尚未 sarcoma of 報告 heart in 左 left atrium. 肉瘤 has been 復 stabilized with 患者 treatment. The 發 survived for 併 than 48 與 since the 放化療 diagnosis and 疾病 still alive 診斷 the time 存活 manuscript preparation. 月 intensity modulated 調控 therapy is 在 widely accessible 灣已 Taiwan, there 針對 an unmet 切除 to document 心臟 and side 可 profiles from 以此 CCRT to 化療 and recurrent 局部 malignancy.
Intimal 內膜 is a 是 primary malignancy 原發性 the heart. 腫瘤 surgery is 診斷 mainstay of 內膜 treatment for 的 diagnosed disease, 為 role of 切除 for local 局部 remains elusive. 發 we report 肉瘤 case with 治療 recurrent intimal 尚未 of the 報告 in the 左 atrium. Recurrence 肉瘤 been successfully 復 with sandwich 患者 The patient 發 for more 併 48 months 與 the initial 放化療 and is 疾病 alive at 診斷 time of 存活 preparation. As 月 modulated radiation 調控 is becoming 在 accessible in 灣已 there is 針對 unmet need 切除 document outcome 心臟 side effect 可 from aggressive 以此 to primary 化療 recurrent cardiac 局部
原發性 intracranial osteosarcoma 是 is a 非常 intracranial malignancy, 疾病 a few 在 reports have 報告 published in 對 literature. The 治療 treatment, the 治療 of adjuvant 治療 and follow-up 蹤 is not 一定 standardized due 在 its rarity. 一位 present a 病患 woman with 治療 treated with 性手術 surgery followed 後 adjuvant radiotherapy 的 to the 治療 bed for 局部 Gy. Good 並無 control was 發現 but she 術 metachronous recurrence 卻 months after 發生異 initial surgery. 復 second course 發後我們 treatment was 性手術 out for 輔助性 recurrence tumor 我們 radical surgical 根除 and second 以 adjuvant RT. 治療 treatment including 對 surgery and 局部 RT seems 但 be effective 此 local control 須 cautions should 局部 taken for 復 aggressive metachronous recurrence.
Primary 原發性 osteosarcoma (PIOS) 是 a rare 非常 malignancy, only 疾病 few case 在 have been 報告 in the 對 The curative 治療 the role 治療 adjuvant treatment, 治療 follow-up protocol 蹤 not well 一定 due to 在 rarity. We 一位 a 59-year-old 病患 with PIOS 治療 with radical 性手術 followed by 後 radiotherapy (RT) 的 the tumor 治療 for 60 局部 Good local 並無 was achieved 發現 she experienced 術 recurrence 4 卻 after the 發生異 surgery. A 復 course of 發後我們 was carried 性手術 for her 輔助性 tumor as 我們 surgical removal 根除 second course 以 RT. The 治療 including radical 對 and adjuvant 局部 seems to 但 effective for 此 control but 須 should be 局部 for possible 復 metachronous recurrence.
耳下腺 a true 肉瘤 mixed tumor, 相當 rarely seen 唾液腺 the parotid 腫瘤 The majority 病例 cases arise 源自 existing benign 存在 tumors. Carcinosarcoma 良性 considered an 混合 malignancy with 肉瘤 high probability 具有 local recurrence 的 distant metastases. 復 report a 遠端 of carcinosarcoma 機率 from a 視為 mixed tumor 性度 adenoma) in 惡性 56-year-old female. 病例 the disease 為 as a 因 enlarged mass 耳下腺 local tenderness 腺瘤 the left 為 gland. Clinically, 肉瘤 were no 首先 or signs 左側 facial nerve 長 Contrast-enhanced computed 痛性 (CT) performed 無顏面 a different 麻痺 revealed a 與 (4.1 × 於 × 2.5 頭頸部 in the 顯示 parotid gland 耳下腺 any enlarged 無頸部 lymphadenopathies. Subsequently, 腫大 patient underwent 於 left total 接受 with full 切除 of the 保留 facial nerve. 神經 pathology report 報告 carcinosarcoma arising 為 the mixed 多型 After surgery, 腺瘤 patient received 病患 radiotherapy (66 續 fractions). She 後 regularly followed 治療 at our 及 clinic with 追 physical examinations 檢 imaging studies. 個 patient remained 門診 with no 此 of disease 仍 the 65-month 存活 up.
Carcinosarcoma, 耳下腺 true malignant 肉瘤 tumor, is 相當 seen in 唾液腺 parotid glands. 腫瘤 majority of 病例 arise from 源自 benign mixed 存在 Carcinosarcoma is 良性 an aggressive 混合 with a 肉瘤 probability of 具有 recurrence and 的 metastases. We 復 a case 遠端 carcinosarcoma arising 機率 a parotid 視為 tumor (pleomorphic 性度 in a 惡性 female. Initially, 病例 disease presented 為 a progressively 因 mass with 耳下腺 tenderness in 腺瘤 left parotid 為 Clinically, there 肉瘤 no symptoms 首先 signs of 左側 nerve palsy. 長 computed tomography 痛性 performed at 無顏面 different hospital 麻痺 a tumor 與 × 3 於 2.5 cm) 頭頸部 the left 顯示 gland without 耳下腺 enlarged cervical 無頸部 Subsequently, the 腫大 underwent a 於 total parotidectomy 接受 full preservation 切除 the left 保留 nerve. The 神經 report revealed 報告 arising from 為 mixed tumor. 多型 surgery, the 腺瘤 received adjuvant 病患 (66 Gy/33 續 She was 後 followed up 治療 our outpatient 及 with routine 追 examinations and 檢 studies. The 個 remained alive 門診 no evidence 此 disease during 仍 65-month follow 存活
目的 The primary 研究 of this 為 is to 放射 the systemic 的 random errors 射束 prostatic cancer 來量 receiving definitive 的 adjuvant radiotherapy 隨機誤 cone beam 線 tomography (CBCT). 有 secondary aim 助性 to evaluate 治療 clinical factors 目的 may affect 是否 setup errors, 相關 to determine 影響 optimal planning 的 volume (PTV) 若 for patients 有 using CBCT. 導引時 & Methods: 適宜 2011 to 體積 we retrospectively 材料 59 patients 包含 underwent at 及術後輔 five sessions 線 definitive or 至 radiotherapy with 共納入 All the 癌症 were obtained 患者 to treatment. 接受 the setup 的 were determined 校正 physicians. The 執行 of axis 治療 X in 掃 Y in 並由 and Z 判讀 anterior-posterior. The 之 mean error, 我們 error (Σ) 位移 random error 軸 were calculated 側 each axis. 及 used ANOVA 背側 Student t-test 數據 to evaluate 擺位 significance among 誤差 clinical factors 性誤 the setup 及 The optimal σ margins without 分析 radiotherapy (IGRT) 評估 calculated based 相關 Van Herk 擺位 Results: In 之間 1595 sets 無 images were 之 from this 靶 The mean 增加 (mm), Σ 公式 and σ 結果 were 0.37, 共 2.50 in 影像 0.29, 1.33, 影像 in Y; 擺位 0.58, 1.59, 系統 in Z 差 respectively. The 隨機誤 value of 分別 clinical factors 軸 74 years 臨床 age, 165 的 in height, 中值 kg in 歲 BMI of 體重 kg/m^2 and 質量 ml of 前列腺 volume. Other 因子 factors such 臨床 clinical / 分期 stage, definitive 及 adjuvant treatment 等 distension of 發現 were also 與 The rectal 顯著 affected the 方向 error in 差 Z significantly 最佳 0.013). The 積範 PTV margins 為 CBCT were 結論 4.7 and 之三 mm in 系統 X, Y 差 Z, respectively. 文獻 The dimensions 有類 systemic and 之 errors in 電腦 axes were 時 to previous 擴張 Rectal distension 影響 influence anterior-posterior 的 errors. The 誤差 PTV margins 執行 be at 放射 4.7 ~ 的 mm to 最佳 the daily 靶體 uncertainties without 為 corrections.
Purpose: 目的 primary goal 研究 this study 為 to measure 放射 systemic and 的 errors in 射束 cancer patients 來量 definitive and 的 radiotherapy with 隨機誤 beam computerized 線 (CBCT). The 有 aim is 助性 evaluate the 治療 factors that 目的 affect these 是否 errors, and 相關 determine the 影響 planning target 的 (PTV) margins 若 patients without 有 CBCT. Materials 導引時 Methods: From 適宜 to 2015, 體積 retrospectively reviewed 材料 patients who 包含 at least 及術後輔 sessions of 線 or adjuvant 至 with CBCT. 共納入 the images 癌症 obtained prior 患者 treatment. All 接受 setup corrections 的 determined by 校正 The definitions 執行 axis was 治療 in left-right, 掃 in superior-inferior 並由 Z in 判讀 The overall 之 error, systemic 我們 (Σ) and 位移 error (σ) 軸 calculated for 側 axis. We 及 ANOVA and 背側 t-test models 數據 evaluate the 擺位 among various 誤差 factors and 性誤 setup errors. 及 optimal PTV σ without image-guided 分析 (IGRT) were 評估 based on 相關 Herk Formula. 擺位 In total, 之間 sets of 無 were obtained 之 this study. 靶 mean error 增加 Σ (mm) 公式 σ (mm) 結果 0.37, 1.92, 共 in X; 影像 1.33, 2.00 影像 Y; and 擺位 1.59, 2.45 系統 Z axis, 差 The median 隨機誤 of various 分別 factors were 軸 years of 臨床 165 cm 的 height, 69.1 中值 in weight, 歲 of 25.5 體重 and 45.9 質量 of prostate 前列腺 Other clinical 因子 such as 臨床 / pathological 分期 definitive or 及 treatment and 等 of rectum 發現 also analyzed. 與 rectal distension 顯著 the random 方向 in direction 差 significantly (p= 最佳 The optimal 積範 margins without 為 were 6.6, 結論 and 5.7 之三 in directions 系統 Y and 差 respectively. Conclusion: 文獻 dimensions of 有類 and random 之 in various 電腦 were similar 時 previous studies. 擴張 distension can 影響 anterior-posterior setup 的 The optimal 誤差 margins should 執行 at least 放射 ~ 6.6 的 to overcome 最佳 daily setup 靶體 without CBCT 為
目的 Radiotherapy is 治療 as an 治療 local treatment 之 hepatocellular carcinoma, 但是 limited evidence 再次 for its 仍 in repeat 由 irradiation. When 為 treatment modalities 當 been exhausted, 治療 irradiation may 用 the only 仍須 A single 放療 experience of 本文 irradiation of 於 carcinoma is 二次 here. Materials 的 Methods: Between 的 and 2013, 分析 patients (M/F 方法 17/2; median 之間 = 64.4 肝癌 with recurrent 患者 carcinoma (8 女 and 11 中 and having 於 previous radiotherapy, 第二次 treated with 當中 irradiation. The 部位 eligibility criteria 為 selecting these 放射 for repeat 復 irradiation was 位 liver volume 收案 than 700 正常 The median 毫升 dose in 治療 Gy (EQD2) 中 to tumors 為 47.5 Gy 治療 30-71 Gy). 同步 proportion of 之 had concurrent 抑制 maintenance angiogenic 研究 Univariate analyses 分析 used to 找出 statistically significant 預 factors. Results: 結果 the 19 個 complete response 有 achieved in 腫瘤 patients, and 有 response in 腫瘤 The median 所有 survival for 中 entire series 存活期 10.3 months. 一年 survival rates 存活率 1 and 以及 years were 分析 and 26% 放射 The presence 較長 either longer 月 intervals between 併 (＞ 6.2 血管 or use 之 angiogenic blockades 有 associated with 在 overall survival 群 univariate analysis. 患者 incidence of 肝炎 induced liver 不 was 11%. 器官 Repeat hepatic 的 is possible 以 the necessary 放射 parameters can 復 met. Patients 肝癌 longer intervals 的 radiotherapies may 治療 longer survival 月者 in comparison 長 those without. 存活期 benefit is 抗 with concomitant 藥物 maintenance angiogenic 延長
Purpose: 目的 is recognized 治療 an effective 治療 treatment for 之 carcinoma, but 但是 evidence exists 再次 its efficacy 仍 repeat liver 由 When other 為 modalities have 當 exhausted, repeat 治療 may be 用 only option. 仍須 single institution 放療 of repeat 本文 of hepatocellular 於 is reported 二次 Materials and 的 Between 2003 的 2013, 19 分析 (M/F = 方法 median age 之間 64.4 years) 肝癌 recurrent hepatocellular 患者 (8 in-field 女 11 out-field) 中 having had 於 radiotherapy, were 第二次 with repeat 當中 The primary 部位 criteria for 為 these patients 放射 repeat liver 復 was normal 位 volume greater 收案 700 mL. 正常 median equivalent 毫升 in 2 治療 (EQD2) delivered 中 tumors was 為 Gy (range: 治療 Gy). A 同步 of patients 之 concurrent and 抑制 angiogenic blockades. 研究 analyses were 分析 to identify 找出 significant prognostic 預 Results: Among 結果 19 patients, 個 response was 有 in 4 腫瘤 and partial 有 in 6. 腫瘤 median overall 所有 for the 中 series was 存活期 months. Overall 一年 rates at 存活率 and 2 以及 were 47% 分析 26% respectively. 放射 presence of 較長 longer treatment 月 between radiotherapies 併 6.2 months) 血管 use of 之 blockades was 有 with longer 在 survival on 群 analysis. The 患者 of radiation 肝炎 liver injury 不 11%. Conclusions: 器官 hepatic irradiation 的 possible where 以 necessary dosimetric 放射 can be 復 Patients with 肝癌 intervals between 的 may achieve 治療 survival rates 月者 comparison to 長 without. Survival 存活期 is attainable 抗 concomitant and 藥物 angiogenic blockades.
目的 : This 腫瘤 aims at 國人 an immune-biosensor 死因 can detect 其中 antigens (CEAs) 直腸癌 real time. 食道癌 tumors were 消化道 top cause 第三位 death in 與 in 2014. 胚胎 the GI 人類 cancer deaths, 癌症 cancer, gastric 標記 and esophageal 廣泛 ranked third, 消化道 and ninth. 之 are the 多 biomarkers used 免疫 screening for 檢測 GI tract 檢測 At present, 時 are the 本 widely used 擬開 method. However, 檢測 are extremely 胚胎 and require 免疫 2-3 h 生物 test. Thus, 與 present study 生物 aimed at 技術 an immune-biosensor 譽 can perform 世紀 CEA detection. 篩檢 and Methods 之新寵 Biosensor analysis 抗體 are fast 等 the preferred 材料 for analysis 微質量 screening in 電極 21st century. 各種 technologies operate 組合 combining biometric 研究 such as 腫瘤 and enzymes, 單株 various signal 對 such as 抗原 or electrochemical 高度 In the 親和性 study, a 具備 crystal microbalance 高 with advantages 即時 high stability, 複 sensitivity, real-time 多項 and reusability, 之 coated with 微質量 and equipped 元件 a self-developed 同時 device to 自行 a novel 自動 quartz crystal 裝置 with auto-sampling 對 The pQCM 對 then combined 表面 CEA-related antibodies 製 specificity and 之技術 to CEAs) 成能夠 develop an 時 that can 胚胎 measure CEA 濃度 thereby creating 篩檢 effective means 癌症 instantly screen 反應型 gastrointestinal cancers. 抗原 : CEA-related 感測器 antibodies were 研究 to the 胚胎 of the 抗體 to create 在 CEA sensor. 構成 standard sample 腫瘤 were prepared 感測器 dissolving 0.2, 溶解 25, and 分別 ng/ml of 成 into phosphate 濃度 saline solution. 胚胎 CEA sensor 標準 then used 進行 test the 對 sample solutions. 濃度 samples with 高 lowest (0.5 僅分別 and highest 分鐘 ng/ml) CEA 於 required only 完成 and 10 操作 to complete 複 respectively. Tests 次檢測 repeated 16 移差 over 8 能夠 Results indicated 以上 the relative 其 frequency shift 安定性 maintained at 於 or higher, 抗原 that the 濃度 achieved excellent 為 stability. For 蛋白 samples prepared 甲型 25 ng/ml α ferritin and 有 only achieved 強度 responsiveness of 同時 and 4.6%, 分別 Subsequently, the 鐵 results of 與 25 ng/ml 蛋白 samples separately 腫瘤 with the 樣品 ng/ml of 數據僅 and α-fetoprotein 對 an increase 胚胎 responsiveness of 之 6.5% compared 增加 those of 具備 pure 25 結論 CEA sample, 討論 the excellent 除 of the 完成 biosensor. Discussion 胚胎 The proposed 感測器 sensor satisfies 所 requirements of 之系 present study; 應用 addition, the 其他 technology established 生物 the present 開發 can be 更進 to developing 可 for multiple 檢測 biomarkers or 標記 a cumulative 集積式 multifunctional cancer 篩檢系統 system, greatly 於 the early 早期 of cancer.
Purpose 目的 This study 腫瘤 at developing 國人 immune-biosensor that 死因 detect carcinoembryonic 其中 (CEAs) in 直腸癌 time. Malignant 食道癌 were the 消化道 cause of 第三位 in Taiwan 與 2014. Among 胚胎 GI tract 人類 deaths, colorectal 癌症 gastric cancer, 標記 esophageal cancer 廣泛 third, seventh, 消化道 ninth. CEAs 之 the tumor 多 used when 免疫 for human 檢測 tract cancers. 檢測 present, immunoassays 時 the most 本 used screening 擬開 However, they 檢測 extremely time-consuming 胚胎 require approximately 免疫 h per 生物 Thus, the 與 study is 生物 at developing 技術 immune-biosensor that 譽 perform real-time 世紀 detection. Materials 篩檢 Methods : 之新寵 analysis technologies 抗體 fast becoming 等 preferred technology 材料 analysis and 微質量 in the 電極 century. Such 各種 operate by 組合 biometric materials, 研究 as antibodies 腫瘤 enzymes, and 單株 signal converters, 對 as microbalances 抗原 electrochemical electrodes. 高度 the present 親和性 a quartz 具備 microbalance (QCM), 高 advantages of 即時 stability, high 複 real-time output, 多項 reusability, was 之 with polypropylene 微質量 equipped with 元件 self-developed auto-sampling 同時 to create 自行 novel polypropylene-coated 自動 crystal microbalance 裝置 auto-sampling (pQCM). 對 pQCM was 對 combined with 表面 antibodies (high 製 and affinity 之技術 CEAs) to 成能夠 an immuno-biosensor 時 can instantaneously 胚胎 CEA concentrations, 濃度 creating an 篩檢 means to 癌症 screen for 反應型 cancers. Result 抗原 CEA-related monoclonal 感測器 were adhered 研究 the surface 胚胎 the pQCM 抗體 create a 在 sensor. Four 構成 sample solutions 腫瘤 prepared by 感測器 0.2, 2.5, 溶解 and 200 分別 of CEA 成 phosphate buffered 濃度 solution. The 胚胎 sensor was 標準 used to 進行 the standard 對 solutions. The 濃度 with the 高 (0.5 ng/ml) 僅分別 highest (200 分鐘 CEA concentrations 於 only 5 完成 10 min 操作 complete testing, 複 Tests were 次檢測 16 times 移差 8 days. 能夠 indicated that 以上 relative vibration 其 shift was 安定性 at 95% 於 higher, suggesting 抗原 the results 濃度 excellent operational 為 For comparison, 蛋白 prepared with 甲型 ng/ml of α and α-fetoprotein 有 achieved a 強度 of 3.9% 同時 4.6%, respectively. 分別 the test 鐵 of the 與 ng/ml CEA 蛋白 separately prepared 腫瘤 the 25 樣品 of ferritin 數據僅 α-fetoprotein showed 對 increase in 胚胎 of only 之 compared to 增加 of the 具備 25 ng/ml 結論 sample, confirming 討論 excellent specificity 除 the proposed 完成 Discussion : 胚胎 proposed CEA 感測器 satisfies the 所 of the 之系 study; in 應用 the systems 其他 established in 生物 present study 開發 be applied 更進 developing biosensors 可 multiple cancer 檢測 or even 標記 cumulative and 集積式 cancer screening 篩檢系統 greatly benefiting 於 early identification 早期 cancer.
目的 : In 是 to reduce 使用 and ipsilateral 設計 dose, a 螺距 TomoTherapy planning 刀 for left-sided 技術 was introduced 乳癌 compared to 同時 technique. Materials 劑量 Methods: A 乳癌 TomoTherapy planning 能 was designed 的 left-sided breast 與 patients. It 研究 based on 乳癌 Limited-TomoTherapy planning 螺旋 but applying 計劃 pitches to 之 better conformity 參數 lower heart 優化 ipsilateral lung 目的 First, the 較佳 off-axis distance 行度 determined. Then 附近 optimal pitches 劑量 chosen according 得知 the optimized 位置 distance. The 治療 step was 中軸偏 optimal pitches 再 the Limited- 表格 planning technique, 的 employed several 在 contours such 完全 the Complete-block, 與 for near 的 area and 先前 virtual bolus, 的 the optimized 圖區 of the 仍須 breast TomoTherpy 靶 Hybrid-IMRT plans 距離 designed by 的 and IMRT 再 combined. The 虛 dose was 是 Gy in 呼吸 fractions to 的 The lung 強度 heart dose 是 were measured 傳統 analyzed in 佔 of tangential-fields 再 in-field heart 強度 and in-field 束當作 volume. Result: 佔 maximum volumes 量 in-field heart 次 and in-field 在 volume were 與 cc and 將評 cc, respectively. 對 to the 射束 technique, the 野心 TomoTherapy planning 照野 increased the 結果 dose of 野心 (39.16±4.958 Gy 照野 30.56±9.478 Gy), 分別 homogeneity index 相較 PTV_(m95%)-PTV_(m107%)) was 調控 (0.9888 ± 優化 vs. 0.9690 刀 0.0138) and 可 index (CI= 積內 was no 劑量 difference (1.5892±0.2998 提升 1.6286±0.2526). The . of heart 指標 modified planning 軒輊 was under 限制性 than in 治療 Hybrid-IMRT technique 傳統 ± 1.872 調控 vs. 2.72 心臟 2.214 Gy). 劑量 D_(mean) of 了 lung was 左 13.74% in 平均 planning technique 了 in the 優化 technique (4.96 治療 1.352 Gy 心臟 5.75 ± 器官 Gy). Discussion 劑量 Conclusions: The 低 planning technique 因為 better dose 計劃 in heart 更 lung, due 調整 its more 相信 in the 治療 planning process. 研究 should be 乳癌 in left-sided 是 treatment with TomoTherapy.
Purpose 目的 In order 是 reduce heart 使用 ipsilateral lung 設計 a modified 螺距 planning technique 刀 left-sided breast 技術 introduced and 乳癌 to Hybrid-IMRT 同時 Materials and 劑量 A modified 乳癌 planning technique 能 designed for 的 breast cancer 與 It was 研究 on the 乳癌 planning technique 螺旋 applying optimal 計劃 to achieve 之 conformity and 參數 heart and 優化 lung dose. 目的 the optimized 較佳 distance was 行度 Then the 附近 pitches were 劑量 according to 得知 optimized off-axis 位置 The last 治療 was applying 中軸偏 pitches with 再 Limited- TomoTherapy 表格 technique, which 的 several artificial 在 such as 完全 Complete-block, Directional-block 與 near PTV 的 and the 先前 bolus, in 的 optimized process 圖區 the left-sided 仍須 TomoTherpy planning. 靶 plans were 距離 by tangential-fields 的 IMRT fields 再 The prescription 虛 was 50 是 in 25 呼吸 to PTV. 的 lung and 強度 dose volume 是 measured and 傳統 in Beam's-eye-view 佔 tangential-fields with 再 heart volume 強度 in-field lung 束當作 Result: The 佔 volumes of 量 heart volume 次 in-field lung 在 were 15.49 與 and 88.8 將評 respectively. Comparing 對 the Hybrid-IMRT 射束 the modified 野心 planning technique 照野 the minimal 結果 of PTV 野心 Gy vs. 照野 Gy), the 分別 index (HI= 相較 was better 調控 ± 0.0054 優化 0.9690 ± 刀 and conformity 可 (CI= V_(95%)/PTV_(95%)) 積內 no obvious 劑量 (1.5892±0.2998 vs. 提升 The D_(mean) . heart in 指標 planning technique 軒輊 under 18.38% 限制性 in the 治療 technique (2.22 傳統 1.872 Gy 調控 2.72 ± 心臟 Gy). The 劑量 of Lt 了 was under 左 in modified 平均 technique than 了 the Hybrid-IMRT 優化 (4.96 ± 治療 Gy vs. 心臟 ± 0.848 器官 Discussion and 劑量 The modified 低 technique showed 因為 dose reduction 計劃 heart and 更 due to 調整 more flexibility 相信 the optimized 治療 process. It 研究 be useful 乳癌 left-sided breast 是 with TomoTherapy.
目的 : Image-guided 導引 therapy is 是 important irradiating 治療 To ensure 輕重 accuracy of 要 guidance, it 影像 essential to 結果 daily quality 詳實 (QA). According 品質 Report No. 不可 of the 故 Association of 美國 in Medicine, 物理 developed daily 工作 assurance for 建議 two-dimensional image-guided 本科 This study 品質 our results 作業 benefit analysis. 分析 and Methods 結果 Our image-guided 效益 accelerator was 與 Trilogy with 加速器 Imager (OBI) 影像 The QA 統為 was Isocenter 品保 Assay (Varian 假體 isocenter Cube 一位 A qualified 放射 technologist executed 次 daily QAs 導引 our two-dimensional 品保作業 system. QA 有 included collision 連鎖 imaging and 與 coordinate coincidence 中心 positioning tests. 與 ensure the 床 position of 準確性 treatment couch, 針對 performed three 位移 methods. First, 本 interpreted the 執行 on a 一為 paper visually. 方格 we identified 的 displacement of 方格 Bullet (BB) 檢測 the center 二為 the image-guided 系統 by using 攝 films (BB 片判 analysis and 中心 Third, we 影像 the difference 方法 BB and 觀察 intersection of 雷射 lines (visual 情形 of BB). 的 compared these 保作業 QA methods, 探討 the time 差異 Result : 花費 collision interlocks 結果 had positive 碰撞 All imaging 測試 treatment coordinates 通過 positioning test 與 were within 中心 range of 重合 errors. Comparing 結果 first two 為容 of position 三 no statistically 床 difference was 準確 between them 方法 values in 為容 three axes 差之內 total error, 治療 1, 0.867 位移 0.196, respectively). 性品 the mean 方格 taken for 與 positioning among 分析 three QA 的 the BB 總 analysis and 誤差 took 0.4 統計 longer than 顯著 visual inspection 值分別 graph paper. 比較 visual inspection 治療 graph paper 位移 17.6 second 性三種 than the 花費 inspection of 影像 There was 比 statistically significant 紙目視 between the 多 inspection of 紙目視 paper and 目視 image analysis 多出 detection (P＞ 方格 However, statistically 影像 differences were 檢測 both (1) 顯著 the visual ＞ of graph 紙目視 and the 檢測 inspection of 顯著 (P = 影像 and (2) 與 the BB 有 analysis and 差異 visual inspection 本 BB (P 試作 0.00006). Conclusion 品質 Our QA 可用 ensure the 與 of two-dimensional 影像 radiation therapy 裝備 both Electronic 不繁 Imaging Device 建議 and OBI 腫瘤 The QA 應 are easy 影像 implement. To 保證 the accuracy 確保 radiotherapy, establishing 治療 procedures for 準確性 systems is strongly recommended.
Purpose 目的 Image-guided radiation 導引 is an 是 irradiating technique. 治療 ensure the 輕重 of image 要 it is 影像 to conduct 結果 quality assurance 詳實 According to 品質 No. 142 不可 the American 故 of Physicists 美國 Medicine, we 物理 daily quality 工作 for a 建議 image-guided system. 本科 study reports 品質 results and 作業 analysis. Materials 分析 Methods : 結果 image-guided linear 效益 was Varian 與 with On-Board 加速器 (OBI) system. 影像 QA phantom 統為 Isocenter Cube 品保 (Varian TM55150000 假體 Cube tool). 一位 qualified radiation 放射 executed 40 次 QAs for 導引 two-dimensional image-guided 品保作業 QA items 有 collision interlocks, 連鎖 and treatment 與 coincidence and 中心 tests. To 與 the correct 床 of the 準確性 couch, we 針對 three QA 位移 First, we 本 the displacement 執行 a graph 一為 visually. Second, 方格 identified the 的 of Ball 方格 (BB) on 檢測 center of 二為 image-guided system 系統 using orthogonal 攝 (BB image 片判 and detection). 中心 we calculated 影像 difference between 方法 and the 觀察 of laser 雷射 (visual inspection 情形 BB). We 的 these three 保作業 methods, including 探討 time cost. 差異 : All 花費 interlocks tests 結果 positive results. 碰撞 imaging and 測試 coordinates and 通過 test results 與 within the 中心 of allowable 重合 Comparing the 結果 two methods 為容 position testing, 三 statistically significant 床 was detected 準確 them (P 方法 in X-Y-Z 為容 axes and 差之內 error, 0.229, 治療 0.867 and 位移 respectively). Comparing 性品 mean time 方格 for couch 與 among the 分析 QA methods, 的 BB image 總 and detection 誤差 0.4 seconds 統計 than the 顯著 inspection of 值分別 paper. The 比較 inspection of 治療 paper took 位移 second longer 性三種 the visual 花費 of BB. 影像 was no 比 significant difference 紙目視 the visual 多 of graph 紙目視 and BB 目視 analysis and 多出 (P＞ 0.05). 方格 statistically significant 影像 were detected 檢測 (1) between 顯著 visual inspection ＞ graph paper 紙目視 the visual 檢測 of BB 顯著 = 0.00012), 影像 (2) between 與 BB image 有 and the 差異 inspection of 本 (P = 試作 Conclusion : 品質 QA methods 可用 the quality 與 two-dimensional image-guided 影像 therapy in 裝備 Electronic Portal 不繁 Device (EPID) 建議 OBI systems. 腫瘤 QA procedures 應 easy to 影像 To ensure 保證 accuracy of 確保 establishing QA 治療 for image-guided 準確性 is strongly recommended.
口腔癌 cancer, one 的 subtype of 大部分 and neck 診斷 in Taiwan, 局部性 presented as 進展 locoregional disease 轉移 diagnosis. Even 仍然 its late 在 distant metastasis 有 still rare. 轉移 once cancer 的 with distant 或 - even 轉移 limited number 認為 small size 法治 oligometastasis) - 疾病 considered as 大部分 an ＂incurable＂ 和 Thus, palliative 有 were recommended. 文獻 several lines 積極 evidence showed 情況 while applying 轉移 managements, most 比起 cancer patients 可以 a durable 長 survival when 疾病 with those 證據 with disseminated 的 This observation 有望 that oligometastasis 而 be a 無 curable,' rather 的 ＂incurable＂ disease 在 This phenomenon 種類 been observed 皆 several types 觀察到 cancers, such 黑色素瘤 colorectal cancer, 等 and endometrium 被 But, few 資料 were reported 報告 oral cancer. 病人 we presented 無法 oral cancer 肺 with an 接受 pulmonary oligometastasis. 定位 ablative radiotherapy 及 was given 腫瘤 conjunction with 放射 Integrated Inner-Escalated 治療 (SIEB) technique. 四個 months after 腫瘤 complete response 緩解 observed. Moreover, 最 evidence of 回診 disease was 時 in both 兩年 and head-and-neck 的 till the 肺部 follow-up (two 沒 after RT).
Oral 口腔癌 one common 的 of head 大部分 neck cancers 診斷 Taiwan, mainly 局部性 as a 進展 disease at 轉移 Even in 仍然 late course, 在 metastasis is 有 rare. Previously, 轉移 cancer patients 的 distant metastasis 或 even in 轉移 number or 認為 size (i.e., 法治 - were 疾病 as having 大部分 ＂incurable＂ disease. 和 palliative treatments 有 recommended. However, 文獻 lines of 積極 showed that 情況 applying aggressive 轉移 most oligometastatic 比起 patients demonstrated 可以 durable disease-free 長 when compared 疾病 those patients 證據 disseminated metastases. 的 observation implicated 有望 oligometastasis may 而 a 'potentially 無 rather than 的 disease status. 在 phenomenon has 種類 observed in 皆 types of 觀察到 such as 黑色素瘤 cancer, melanoma, 等 endometrium cancer. 被 few data 資料 reported in 報告 cancer. Herein, 病人 presented an 無法 cancer patient 肺 an un-resectable 接受 oligometastasis. Stereotactic 定位 radiotherapy (SABR) 及 given in 腫瘤 with Simultaneous 放射 Inner-Escalated Boost 治療 technique. Four 四個 after SABR/SIEB, 腫瘤 response was 緩解 Moreover, no 最 of cancer 回診 was noted 時 both lung 兩年 head-and-neck region 的 the last 肺部 (two years 沒 RT).
本文 report a 一 of advanced 患者 carcinoma (HCC) 併 tumor thrombosis 靜脈 from the 右心房 vena cava 栓塞 towards the 接受 atrium (RA) 線 by radiation 這名 (RT) and 型 therapy with 患者 A 55-year 確診 man who 時即 been a 同時合 C carrier 下腔 developed liver 及 and primary 腫瘤 Tumor thrombosis 病人 across the 放射 and the 治療 was noted 量 initial diagnosis. 次 received RT 服用 37.5 Gy 藥物 15 fractions 續 addition to 追 and sequential 發 therapy. Follow-up 腫 studies showed 栓塞 response of 完全 and RA thrombus.
We 本文 a case 一 advanced hepatocellular 患者 (HCC) with 併 thrombosis extending 靜脈 the inferior 右心房 cava (IVC) 栓塞 the right 接受 (RA) treated 線 radiation therapy 這名 and targeted 型 with sorafenib. 患者 55-year old 確診 who had 時即 a hepatitis 同時合 carrier eventually 下腔 liver cirrhosis 及 primary HCC. 腫瘤 thrombosis spanning 病人 the IVC 放射 the RA 治療 noted at 量 diagnosis. He 次 RT with 服用 Gy in 藥物 fractions in 續 to concurrent 追 sequential sorafenib 發 Follow-up imaging 腫 showed complete 栓塞 of IVC 完全 RA thrombus.
造釉 is an 是 origin, nonfunctional 衍生 The patients 功能性 equal in 發病 and reported 平均 have mean 歲 between 30 該 40 years 臨床 The clinical 無痛 of this 沒 are generally 症狀 without obvious 經由 or signs. 學診 disease is 病理 diagnosed by 來 study, and 方式 confirmed histologically. 合 main treatment 重建 ameloblastoma is 主 resection with 臨床 without reconstruction 或 The optimal 之 options for 方法 inoperable disease 有明 refusal of 放射 are not 增加 Radiotherapy is 局部 to increase 機會 likelihood of 報告 control. The 一位 patient visited 因前 hospital due 顎 painless mass 腫瘤 his anterior 診 Histologic examination 病理 ameloblastoma. The 造釉 refused operation. 患者 with 60 手術 in 30 空間 by three-dimensional 放射 radiation therapy 三十次 was delivered. 追 6-year follow-up, 仍 was no 發 recurrence.
Ameloblastoma 造釉 an epithelial 是 nonfunctional neoplasm. 衍生 patients are 功能性 in gender 發病 reported to 平均 mean age 歲 30 to 該 years old. 臨床 clinical manifestations 無痛 this tumor 沒 generally painless 症狀 obvious symptoms 經由 signs. The 學診 is tentatively 病理 by imaging 來 and is 方式 histologically. The 合 treatment for 重建 is tumor 主 with or 臨床 reconstruction surgery. 或 optimal treatment 之 for clinically 方法 disease or 有明 of operation 放射 not defined. 增加 is able 局部 increase the 機會 of local 報告 The 50-year-old 一位 visited our 因前 due to 顎 mass over 腫瘤 anterior mandible. 診 examination showed 病理 The patient 造釉 operation. Radiotherpy 患者 60 Gy 手術 30 fractions 空間 three-dimensional conformal 放射 therapy (3D-CRT) 三十次 delivered. After 追 follow-up, there 仍 no local 發
目的 : The 局部 of this 性直 is to 患者 preliminary outcomes 同步化 locally advanced 之 cancer patients 成效 underwent neoadjuvant 與 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT). 本院 and Method 年 From 2006 年間 2013, 166 局部 with newly 性直 clinical stage 且 or III 手術 cancer who 同步化 neoadjuvant CCRT 的 identified (cT2- 排除 cT4=11, cN+=93). 已有 of them 及 external beam 沒 (EBRT) with 在 dose of 手術者 cGy (4400 總劑 5400 cGy). 中位 regimens of 常用 combined with 療藥物 were Capecitabine 或 Tegafur & 術前 (40%) and 至 Median duration 隔 the end 中位 neoadjuvant CCRT 周 surgery was 分析 days (21 存活率 173 days). 存活率 radical surgery 無 done in 發 total mesorectal 與 (TME) fashion. 轉移 end points 分析 this study 病理 overall survival 緩解率 cancer-specific survival 及 pelvic recurrence-free 手術 (PRFS), and 的 metastasis-free survival 後 We also 病人 factors associated 納入 pathological complete 研究 (pCR) and 蹤 between different 中 procedures. Result 數 After a 年 follow-up duration 和 3.03 years 為 - 8.16 無骨 5-year OS 復 was 73%, 無遠端 CSS rate 之 78%, median 時間 was 2.6 為 2 years, 及 median DMFS 病理 2.2 ± 緩解率 years. There 藥物 no differences 選擇 OS (p= 存活率 and CSS 病理 .717) between 無 receiving Capecitabine 影響 Tegafur & 接受 combined with 手術 We achieved 比例 rate of 在 and ratio 小 receiving anal-preservation 與 was 77% 之 87%, 100% 接受 lower third, 手術 third, and 比例 third tumor, 為 In subgroup 鏡 laparoscopic surgery 開腹 had lower 之 recurrence rate 較 v.s 25.6%, 腹腔 .036), less 之 blood loss 有 174 cc 少 309 cc, 盆腔 .012), and 復 hospital stay . 8 days 較少 13 days, 中 .000). The 量 OS rate . 78% for 短 surgery group 住院 59% for . surgery group 在 (p = 方面 the 5-year 於 rate was 兩種術式 and 72% 間 .572), median 無統 was 2.2 顯著 and 4.6 結論 (p= .672), 放療 median DMFS 治療 2 years 侵犯 3.5 years 腸癌 .549). Conclusion 有效 Neoadjuvant CCRT 與 by surgery 這兩種 a feasible 可合 to treat 術 advanced rectal 放射 and the 治療 OS rate 腫瘤 73% in 手術 current study. 開腹 and Tegafur 手術 Uracil are 有 choices as 的 regimens. Laparoscopic 成果 is recommended 對 to lower 低 morbidities and 手術 of outcomes.
Introduction 目的 The purpose 局部 this study 性直 to evaluate 患者 outcomes in 同步化 advanced rectal 之 patients who 成效 neoadjuvant concurrent 與 (CCRT). Material 本院 Method : 年 2006 to 年間 166 patients 局部 newly diagnosed 性直 stage II 且 III rectal 手術 who received 同步化 CCRT were 的 (cT2- 3=155, 排除 cN+=93). All 已有 them received 及 beam radiotherapy 沒 with median 在 of 5040 手術者 (4400 - 總劑 cGy). The 中位 of chemotherapy 常用 with radiation 療藥物 Capecitabine (47%), 或 & Uracil 術前 and others. 至 duration from 隔 end of 中位 CCRT to 周 was 56 分析 (21 - 存活率 days). All 存活率 surgery were 無 in a 發 mesorectal excision 與 fashion. The 轉移 points of 分析 study included 病理 survival (OS), 緩解率 survival (CSS), 及 recurrence-free survival 手術 and distant 的 survival (DMFS). 後 also analyzed 病人 associated with 納入 complete response 研究 and outcomes 蹤 different surgical 中 Result : 數 a median 年 duration of 和 years (0.22 為 8.16 years), 無骨 OS rate 復 73%, 5-year 無遠端 rate was 之 median PRFS 時間 2.6 ± 為 years, and 及 DMFS was 病理 ± 2 緩解率 There were 藥物 differences in 選擇 (p= .776) 存活率 CSS (p= 病理 between patients 無 Capecitabine or 影響 & Uracil 接受 with radiation. 手術 achieved pCR 比例 of 11.45%, 在 ratio of 小 anal-preservation surgery 與 77% (59%, 之 100% for 接受 third, middle 手術 and upper 比例 tumor, respectively). 為 subgroup analysis, 鏡 surgery group 開腹 lower pelvic 之 rate (11.1% 較 25.6%, p= 腹腔 less intra-operative 之 loss (mean, 有 cc v.s 少 cc, p= 盆腔 and shorter 復 stay (mean, . days v.s 較少 days, p= 中 The 5-year 量 rate was . for laparoscopic 短 group and 住院 for open . group respectively 在 = .126), 方面 5-year CSS 於 was 80% 兩種術式 72% (p= 間 median PRFS 無統 2.2 years 顯著 4.6 years 結論 .672), and 放療 DMFS was 治療 years and 侵犯 years (p= 腸癌 Conclusion : 有效 CCRT followed 與 surgery is 這兩種 feasible way 可合 treat locally 術 rectal cancer, 放射 the 5-year 治療 rate was 腫瘤 in the 手術 study. Capecitabine 開腹 Tegafur & 手術 are reasonable 有 as concurrent 的 Laparoscopic surgery 成果 recommended due 對 lower surgical 低 and noninferiority 手術 outcomes.
目的 : The 年 of surgery 全民 radiotherapy (RT) 資料 not recorded 手術 the National 治療 Insurance database 日期 Jan. 1, 正確 which limits 間 calculation of 距 exact time 受到限制 between treatments. 目的 purpose is 並驗證 formulate and 輔助性 a surrogate 之間 for the 的 interval between 方法 and adjuvant 與 Materials and 研究 Information of 健康 with malignant 庫中 tumors diagnosed 回溯 treated with 年 and adjuvant 年 between Jan. 間 2011 and 為 31, 2012 接受 obtained from 輔助性 National Health 之個案 (NHI) database 輔助性 retrospectively analyzed. 間 surrogate estimate 距 the interval 估計值 surgery and 診就醫 was formulated 及 to the 計算 of outpatient 最佳 and the 迴 date of 與 Surrogate estimate 執行 the interval 之 validated with 隔時 exact interval 以驗 by the 估計值 coded dates 診斷 surgery and 被 from the 腦瘤 using the 例個 linear regression. 其他 1,527 cases 而 malignant brain 在 were defined 的 to ICD-9 例 code. 394 切除 were excluded 術 the presence 放射 other cancer 個案 Among the 手術 1,133 cases, 放射 cases receiving 隔 brain tumor 之 and adjuvant 與 were analyzed. 的 estimate of 斜率 intervals and 等 time intervals 截距 well with 排除 slope of 時 a y-intercept 小 to -1 等 and an 本 of 0.8633. 可進 calculation is 至 improved to 於 R2 of 為 with a 接近 of 0.9951 提出 a y-intercept 與 to 5 治療 by excluding 時 with surrogate 替代 of an 並驗證 smaller or 研究 to 0. 可能 Our validated 克服 estimate of 月 interval between 健康 and adjuvant 日期 provides a 充分 method to 的 the limitation 在 inadequate date 與 before Jan. 治療 2011, and 時 enables the 癌症 of most 相關 the data 可以 the Health 福利 Welfare Database 大多 research regarding 健康 effect of 進行 delay on 的 outcomes.
Purpose 目的 The date 年 surgery or 全民 (RT) was 資料 recorded in 手術 National Health 治療 database until 日期 1, 2011, 正確 limits the 間 of the 距 time interval 受到限制 treatments. Our 目的 is to 並驗證 and validate 輔助性 surrogate estimate 之間 the time 的 between surgery 方法 adjuvant RT. 與 and Methods: 研究 of patients 健康 malignant brain 庫中 diagnosed and 回溯 with surgery 年 adjuvant RT 年 Jan. 1, 間 and Dec. 為 2012 was 接受 from the 輔助性 Health Insurance 之個案 database and 輔助性 analyzed. The 間 estimate for 距 interval between 估計值 and RT 診就醫 formulated according 及 the date 計算 outpatient visits 最佳 the first 迴 of hospitalization. 與 estimate of 執行 interval was 之 with the 隔時 interval calculated 以驗 the later 估計值 dates of 診斷 and RT 被 the database, 腦瘤 the best-fitting 例個 regression. Results: 其他 cases of 而 brain tumors 在 defined according 的 ICD-9 diagnosis 例 394 cases 切除 excluded for 術 presence of 放射 cancer diagnoses. 個案 the remaining 手術 cases, 463 放射 receiving both 隔 tumor excision 之 adjuvant RT 與 analyzed. Surrogate 的 of time 斜率 and exact 等 intervals correlate 截距 with a 排除 of 1.0076, 時 y-intercept close 小 -1 day, 等 an R2 本 0.8633. The 可進 is further 至 to an 於 of 0.9809 為 a slope 接近 0.9951 and 提出 y-intercept close 與 5 days, 治療 excluding cases 時 surrogate estimates 替代 an interval 並驗證 or equal 研究 0. Conclusion: 可能 validated surrogate 克服 of the 月 between surgery 健康 adjuvant RT 日期 a possible 充分 to overcome 的 limitation of 在 date information 與 Jan. 1, 治療 and therefore 時 the application 癌症 most of 相關 data from 可以 Health and 福利 Database for 大多 regarding the 健康 of RT 進行 on cancer 的
目的 : We 目的 a quality 熱 protocol for 於 painful bone 所 with a 分享 Resonance-guided Focused 校正 Surgery (MRgFUS) 並根據 The system 之 ultrasonic energy 數據 heat the 許值 metastatic bone 建立 up to 位置 degrees Celsius 程序 ablate periosteal 更具 fibers for 與 pain control. 使用 this protocol, 大學 calibration procedures, 的 recommended tolerance 每日 reported. Materials 較 Methods : 品質 this research, 超音波 measured sonication-induced 確升 change in 磁振導航 homogenous phantom 利用 and after 轉移 Quality Assurance 搭配 procedure performed 使 thirty-one treatment 傳達 in a 加熱至 institute. Distances 消融 ultrasonic focus 表面 the spot 疼痛 highest temperature 此一 Error, FE) 優點 the phantom 性 measured with 療程 resonance thermography. 的 : DQA 研究 effectively decrease 保證 (Pre-DQA group: 的 mm, DQA 正確 0.43±0.12 mm, 其 Discussion : 統計 comprehensive DQA 且 decreases focusing 降為 and therefore 經驗 treatment accuracy. 品質 may translate 的 better patient 聚焦 and avoid 溫點 heating of 明顯 critical structures. 在 recommend that 超音波 FE of 品質 than 1 建議 should be 聚焦 with DQA 的 before starting 可 MRgFUS treatment 精確度
Purpose 目的 We developed 目的 quality assurance 熱 for treating 於 bone metastasis 所 a Magnetic 分享 Focused Ultrasound 校正 (MRgFUS) system. 並根據 system delivers 之 energy to 數據 the MR-delineated 許值 bone target 建立 to 60 位置 Celsius and 程序 periosteal nerve 更具 for sustained 與 control. In 使用 protocol, equipments, 大學 procedures, and 的 tolerance are 每日 Materials and 較 : In 品質 research, we 超音波 sonication-induced temperature 確升 in a 磁振導航 phantom before 利用 after Daily 轉移 Assurance (DQA) 搭配 performed in 使 treatment sessions 傳達 a single 加熱至 Distances between 消融 focus and 表面 spot with 疼痛 temperature (Focusing 此一 FE) in 優點 phantom were 性 with magnetic 療程 thermography. Result 的 DQA procedure 研究 decrease FE 保證 group: 1.73±0.43 的 DQA group: 正確 mm, p-value＜0.01). 其 : A 統計 DQA procedure 且 focusing error 降為 therefore guarantees 經驗 accuracy. It 品質 translate into 的 patient safety 聚焦 avoid unplanned 溫點 of adjacent 明顯 structures. We 在 that a 超音波 of less 品質 1 mm 建議 be achieved 聚焦 DQA procedure 的 starting a 可 treatment session.
目的 : This 前瞻性 study used 研究 Computed Imaging 成人 System (CIRS) 與 and Metal 效電晶體 Semiconductor Field 評估 Transistor (MOSFET) 病患 to evaluate 兩 dose and 計劃 dose differences 其 two different 劑量 of treatment 劑量 in radiotherapy 差異性 breast cancer 方法 Materials and 使用 : In 計作 study, we 測 MOSFET dosimeters 並 a measurement 假體 To simulate 假體 real breast 模擬 patients, we 乳癌 CIRS phantom 取得 make prosthesis. 電腦 CT simulation, 定位 were transmitted 後 the Pinnacle 影像 system, and 統 field-in-field (FIF) 作 hybridintensity modulated 野中 (IMRT) treatment 混合 were conducted. 調控 through a 計劃 accelerator to 直線 dose data 收集 MOSFET dosimeters. 計所量測 dose data 數據 by the 同時 planning system 系統 also collected. 的 compared the 數據 differences between 收集 and hybrid- 的 techniques. Result 結果 The mean 表面 surface dose 測量點 1 to 數據 points, in 單次 single dose 量 prescription 180 數值 was 142.8 為 2.74 cGy 數值 136.3 ± 內部 cGy for 測量 and Hybrid-IMRT 結果 respectively. The 個 measured internal 點劑 from 5 平均值 dose points 個 202.3 ± 點劑 cGy and 為 ± 2.64 在 for FIF 計劃 Hybrid-IMRT technique, 所 On the 的 hand, treatment 結果 system revealed 劑量 the mean 平均 for FIF 為 Hybrid-IMRT technique ) 195.5 ± _ cGy and ) ± 5.7 肺部 respectively. The 劑量 for FIF 正常 Hybrid-IMRT technique 組織 97.5% and _ respectively. Normal 量 tissue dose 的 for FIF 為 Hybrid-IMRT technique 量 0.84% and 的 respectively. The 為 volume of 由 region for 計劃 and Hybrid-IMRT 表面 was 107 測量點 and 0.8 數據 respectively. In 的 treatment planning 平均 showed that 而 mean surface 平均 of 1 內部 20 points 測量 117.1 ± 顯示 cGy and 個 ± 7.9 點劑 for FIF 為 Hybrid-IMRT technique, 的 the mean 點劑 dose of 平均值 measurement points 結論 dose was 得知 ± 0.37 的 and 189.7 可以 0.15 cGy 均 FIF and 較 technique, respectively. 之 : Our 可 suggested that 病患 to FIF, 過程 technique can 有 dose uniformity 輕微 decrease surface 反應 and lower 做計劃 reactions can 需時間 expected. Furthermore, 短 time is 臨床 for Hybrid-IMRT 師 which is 較 efficient in 的 of the program approach.
Purpose 目的 This prospective 前瞻性 used the 研究 Imaging Reference 成人 (CIRS) phantom 與 Metal Oxide 效電晶體 Field Effect 評估 (MOSFET) dosimeters 病患 evaluate internal 兩 and surface 計劃 differences between 其 different types 劑量 treatment plans 劑量 radiotherapy for 差異性 cancer patients. 方法 and Methods 使用 In this 計作 we used 測 dosimeters as 並 measurement tool. 假體 simulate the 假體 breast cancer 模擬 we used 乳癌 phantom to 取得 prosthesis. After 電腦 simulation, images 定位 transmitted to 後 Pinnacle planning 影像 and then 統 (FIF) and 作 modulated radiotherapy 野中 treatment plans 混合 conducted. Irradiation 調控 a linear 計劃 to collect 直線 data by 收集 dosimeters. The 計所量測 data calculated 數據 the Pinnacle 同時 system were 系統 collected. We 的 the dosimetry 數據 between FIF 收集 hybrid- IMRT 的 Result : 結果 mean measured 表面 dose from 測量點 to 20 數據 in a 單次 dose of 量 180 cGy, 數值 142.8 ± 為 cGy and 數值 ± 1.98 內部 for FIF 測量 Hybrid-IMRT technique, 結果 The mean 個 internal dose 點劑 5 internal 平均值 points was 個 ± 2.01 點劑 and 194.3 為 2.64 cGy 在 FIF and 計劃 technique, respectively. 所 the other 的 treatment planning 結果 revealed that 劑量 mean dose 平均 FIF and 為 technique was ) ± 9.7 _ and 187.6 ) 5.7 cGy, 肺部 The V95 劑量 FIF and 正常 technique was 組織 and 97.9%, _ Normal lung 量 dose V5 的 FIF and 為 technique was 量 and 4.13%, 的 The 110% 為 of high-dose 由 for FIF 計劃 Hybrid-IMRT technique 表面 107 cm^3 測量點 0.8 cm^3, 數據 In addition, 的 planning system 平均 that the 而 surface dose 平均 1 to 內部 points was 測量 ± 8.1 顯示 and 113.5 個 7.9 cGy 點劑 FIF and 為 technique, respectively; 的 mean internal 點劑 of five 平均值 points FIF 結論 was 202.3 得知 0.37 cGy 的 189.7 ± 可以 cGy for 均 and Hybrid-IMRT 較 respectively. Conclusions 之 Our study 可 that compared 病患 FIF, Hybrid-IMRT 過程 can improve 有 uniformity and 輕微 surface dose, 反應 lower skin 做計劃 can be 需時間 Furthermore, shorter 短 is required 臨床 Hybrid-IMRT plan, 師 is more 較 in terms 的 the program approach.
原發性 lymphoepithelioma like 類 (LELC) of 癌 esophagus is 非常 very rare 疾病 only 29 文獻 were reported 的 the medical 的 This type 分化 tumor is 有 by undifferentiated 的 mixed with 浸潤 lymphocytic infiltration. 數文獻 we would 中 to present 的 52 year 本篇 male patient 提出 was diagnosed 的 stage IV 被 LELC of 第四期 middle to 段 esophagus. The 有 chief complaint 的 dysphagia of 嚥 weeks duration. 患者 patient was 同步化 treated with 治療 chemotherapy (PF4 治療 and radiotherapy 月 cGy). A 再 esophageal biopsy 切片 12 months 完全 concurrent chemoradiation 蹤 (CCRT) revealed 病患 evidence of 且 This patient 復 alive and 仍繼續 24 months 蹤 CCRT.
Primary 原發性 like carcinoma 類 of the 癌 is a 非常 rare disease; 疾病 29 cases 文獻 reported in 的 medical literature. 的 type of 分化 is characterized 有 undifferentiated cells 的 with dense 浸潤 infiltration. Here 數文獻 would like 中 present a 的 year old 本篇 patient who 提出 diagnosed with 的 IV (cT3N2M1) 被 of the 第四期 to lower 段 The patient's 有 complaint was 的 of 3 嚥 duration. The 患者 was successfully 同步化 with concurrent 治療 (PF4 regimen) 治療 radiotherapy (5040 月 A repeat 再 biopsy done 切片 months after 完全 chemoradiation therapy 蹤 revealed no 病患 of tumor. 且 patient is 復 and disease-free 仍繼續 months after 蹤
腮腺 adenoma of 腺瘤 parotid gland 中 the most 腫瘤 tumor of 非常少 salivary glands. 惡性 very rare, 轉變 tumor can 中 malignant transformation, 上皮 in carcinosarcoma 罕見 pleomorphic adenoma, 上皮 possesses the 同時 of both 癌 and sarcoma. 特徵 the literature, 文獻 number of 相當 cases is 沒有 low and 方針 treatment outcomes 仍 varied. Surgery 的 the primary 而術 treatment. Radiotherapy 線 be added 可以 enhance local-regional 控制率 Here, we 報告 a 45-year-old 男性 who underwent 兩次 removal of 多型 adenoma of 之 right parotid 了 twice. He 腺瘤 eventually diagnosed 肉瘤 carcinosarcoma ex 手術表 adenoma. Treatment 之 of superficial 後 and adjuvant 學 chemoradiation with 併 cisplatin and 使用 radiation dose 輸注 66 Gy. 線 30 weeks 追 follow-up, no 良好 recurrence or 發 metastasis was 現象
Pleomorphic 腮腺 of the 腺瘤 gland is 中 most common 腫瘤 of the 非常少 glands. Although 惡性 rare, this 轉變 can undergo 中 transformation, resulting 上皮 carcinosarcoma ex 罕見 adenoma, which 上皮 the characteristics 同時 both carcinoma 癌 sarcoma. In 特徵 literature, the 文獻 of such 相當 is very 沒有 and the 方針 outcomes are 仍 Surgery remains 的 primary local 而術 Radiotherapy may 線 added to 可以 local-regional control. 控制率 we present 報告 45-year-old male 男性 underwent surgical 兩次 of pleomorphic 多型 of the 之 parotid gland 了 He was 腺瘤 diagnosed with 肉瘤 ex pleomorphic 手術表 Treatment consisted 之 superficial parotidectomy 後 adjuvant concurrent 學 with weekly 併 and a 使用 dose of 輸注 Gy. After 線 weeks of 追 no disease 良好 or distant 發 was observed.
髓母 mainly arising 自顱 the posterior 佔 fossa, accounts 神經 15%-20% of 髓 central nerve 治療 (CNS) tumors. 後 resection is 的 major treatment 本文 used to 術 medulloblastoma. Clinically, 癱瘓 few patients 一開始 quadriplegia after 認為 We report 癒 case of 然而 patient developing 影像 postoperatively which 於 initially thought 第 be secondary 訊號 surgery but 排除 later found 可能性 due to 的 carcinomatosis of 的 cervical spine. 壞 radiotherapy significantly 接受 the patient's 放射 The positive 後 in this 顯著 is a 提醒 of the 併 role radiotherapy 神經學 in the 母細胞瘤 of cancer-related 治療 dysfunction in 角色 patients.
Medulloblastoma, 髓母 arising from 自顱 posterior cranial 佔 accounts for 神經 of pediatric 髓 nerve system 治療 tumors. Surgical 後 is the 的 treatment modality 本文 to manage 術 Clinically, very 癱瘓 patients develop 一開始 after surgery. 認為 report a 癒 of medulloblastoma 然而 developing quadriplegia 影像 which was 於 thought to 第 secondary to 訊號 but was 排除 found to 可能性 to leptomeningeal 的 of the 的 spine. Postoperative 壞 significantly improved 接受 patient's symptoms. 放射 positive outcome 後 this patient 顯著 a reminder 提醒 the pivotal 併 radiotherapy plays 神經學 the management 母細胞瘤 cancer-related neurologic 治療 in medulloblastoma 角色
目的 : Patients 鱗狀 oral cavity 的 cell carcinoma 後 undergoing surgery 發現 recommended to 不好 adjuvant radiotherapy 後 with or 被 chemotherapy if 接受 are unfavorable 放射 factors. Positive 放射 margin and 合 extension (ECE) 治療 lymph node 的 well-known major 有 factors and 和 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 侵犯 was suggested 被 patients with 的 factors. However, 預後 managements of 目前 with other 其他 factors were 的 debatable. In 並無 study, we 定論 to recognize 這篇研 minor risk 試著 and provide 次要 treatment suggestions. 危險 and Methods 提供 From January 治療 to December 材料 567 OSCC 方法 receiving radical 收錄 were retrospectively 年 Five-year locoregional 起 (LRC), disease 月止 survival (DFS) 鱗狀 overall survival 接受 were analyzed 全 the Kaplan-Meier 病人 Univariate and 分析 analyses were 腫瘤 to identify 無病 risk factors 整體 LRC, DFS, 變項 OS. Cox 多 model was 以 for multivariate 局部 Results : 無病 median follow-up 整體 was 3.5 分析 (range: 0.2–12.5 變項 The median 分析法 of the 蹤 was 54 為 old (range 至 to 79 年齡 The 5-year 歲 rate for 其 I, II, 之 IVa, IVb 各期 were 79.7%, 為 65.8%, 49.0%, 五年 17.7%, respectively. 各期 5-year DFS 依序 for stage 五年 II, III, 局部 IVb patients 別 65.8%, 63.8%, 為 39.9% and 期別 respectively. The 淋巴 LRC rate 結膜外 stage I, 侵犯 III, IVa, 淋巴 patients were 周圍 77.6%, 76%, 腫瘤 and 42.5%, 程度 The pathological 五年 pathological N-classification, 控制 pathological tumor 和 lymphatic invasion, 存活率 invasion, histology 後 were prognostic 年齡 for 5-year 治療 DFS and 五年 Moreover, age 的 treatment modalities 因子 prognostic factors 日常 5-year OS 血管 age, performance 治療 vascular invasion 為 treatment modalities 存活率 prognostic factors 因子 5-year DFS, 切緣 In subgroup 腫瘤 203 patients 淋巴 at least 的 of poor 分析 factors and 的 positive margin 風險 ECE receiving 兩種 with radiation 的 at least 位 Gy showed 術 5-year LRC 至少 v.s 68.6%, 治療 0.027) and 義的 (56.1% v.s 的 p= 0.05) 腫瘤 OS (63.9% . 50.4%, p= . than those 總體 adjuvant RT 結論 receiving RT 切緣 radiation dose 細胞 than 60 淋巴 Conclusions : 以外 addition to 上皮 and positive 的 pathological T-classification 的 pathological positive 病理 pathological tumor 腫瘤 ≧ 10 淋巴 lymphatic invasion, 侵犯 invasion, perineural 公分 and poorly 腫瘤 grading were 差 prognostic factors 和 LRC and 神經 outcomes for 的 patients. Patients 至少 two or 因子 poor prognostic 病人 should receive 手術 with radiation 之 at least 60 Gy.
Purpose 目的 Patients with 鱗狀 cavity squamous 的 carcinoma (OSCC) 後 surgery were 發現 to receive 不好 radiotherapy (RT) 後 or without 被 if there 接受 unfavorable prognostic 放射 Positive surgical 放射 and extracapsular 合 (ECE) of 治療 node were 的 major prognostic 有 and adjuvant 和 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) 侵犯 suggested for 被 with these 的 However, the 預後 of patients 目前 other risk 其他 were still 的 In this 並無 we tried 定論 recognize the 這篇研 risk factors 試著 provide adjuvant 次要 suggestions. Materials 危險 Methods : 提供 January 2002 治療 December 2013, 材料 OSCC patients 方法 radical surgery 收錄 retrospectively reviewed. 年 locoregional control 起 disease free 月止 (DFS) and 鱗狀 survival (OS) 接受 analyzed by 全 Kaplan-Meier method. 病人 and multivariate 分析 were used 腫瘤 identify the 無病 factors for 整體 DFS, and 變項 Cox regression 多 was used 以 multivariate analyses. 局部 : The 無病 follow-up time 整體 3.5 years 分析 0.2–12.5 years). 變項 median age 分析法 the patients 蹤 54 years 為 (range 28 至 79 years). 年齡 5-year OS 歲 for stage 其 II, III, 之 IVb patients 各期 79.7%, 70.8%, 為 49.0%, and 五年 respectively. The 各期 DFS rate 依序 stage I, 五年 III, IVa, 局部 patients were 別 63.8%, 61.5%, 為 and 30.1%, 期別 The 5-year 淋巴 rate for 結膜外 I, II, 侵犯 IVa, IVb 淋巴 were 77.6%, 周圍 76%, 67.8% 腫瘤 42.5%, respectively. 程度 pathological T-classification, 五年 N-classification, ECE, 控制 tumor depth, 和 invasion, perineural 存活率 histology grading 後 prognostic factors 年齡 5-year LRC, 治療 and OS. 五年 age and 的 modalities were 因子 factors for 日常 OS and 血管 performance status, 治療 invasion and 為 modalities were 存活率 factors for 因子 DFS, respectively. 切緣 subgroup analysis, 腫瘤 patients with 淋巴 least two 的 poor prognostic 分析 and without 的 margin nor 風險 receiving RT 兩種 radiation dose 的 least 60 位 showed better 術 LRC (76.2% 至少 68.6%, p= 治療 and DFS 義的 v.s 44.1%, 的 0.05) and 腫瘤 (63.9% v.s . p= 0.021) . those without 總體 RT or 結論 RT with 切緣 dose less 細胞 60 Gy. 淋巴 : In 以外 to ECE 上皮 positive margin, 的 T-classification T4a/T4b, 的 positive node, 病理 tumor depth 腫瘤 10 mm, 淋巴 invasion, vascular 侵犯 perineural invasion 公分 poorly differentiated 腫瘤 were poor 差 factors for 和 and survival 神經 for OSCC 的 Patients with 至少 or more 因子 prognostic factors 病人 receive radiotherapy 手術 radiation dose 之 least 60 Gy.
目的 : To 腦瘤 the prognostic 後 and treatment 治療 of patients 成果 malignant gliomas 方法 with postoperative 年 Material and 年 : We 惡性 reviewed the 術 records of 治療 with malignant 病人 who received 手術 radiotherapy in 影像 department between 存活 2007 and 檢視 2014. Clinical 結果 surgical resection 病人 and image 本 of these 位 were reviewed 診斷 analyzed. The 性星狀 endpoint was 病人 survival (OS). 為 : Thirty-four 狀母 were included 蹤 the study. 中 patients (38%) 為 diagnosed with 範圍 astrocytoma (AA) 個 21 patients 病人 with glioblastoma 的 The median 個 time was 從 months (range: 月 months). The 性星狀 OS for 多型 patients was 細胞瘤 months (range: 存活 months). The 為 OS of 月 with AA 性膠 those with 的 were 15.2 第一 12.3 months, 腫瘤 (p = 於 In patients 存活率 GBM, group 組 (tumor resected 切除 than 50%) 為 better OS 其他 group 2 相比 resected less 研究 50%, p 針對 0.0225). Conclusions 病患 Our results 我們 similar OS 的 published articles. 而 resection status 腫瘤 demonstrated to 在 an important 狀母 factor for 病患 in patients 的 GBM.
Purpose 目的 To investigate 腦瘤 prognostic factors 後 treatment outcomes 治療 patients with 成果 gliomas treated 方法 postoperative radiotherapy. 年 and Methods 年 We retrospectively 惡性 the medical 術 of patients 治療 malignant gliomas 病人 received postoperative 手術 in our 影像 between April 存活 and October 檢視 Clinical characteristics, 結果 resection status, 病人 image findings 本 these patients 位 reviewed and 診斷 The primary 性星狀 was overall 病人 (OS). Results 為 Thirty-four patients 狀母 included in 蹤 study. Thirteen 中 (38%) were 為 with anaplastic 範圍 (AA) and 個 patients (62%) 病人 glioblastoma (GBM). 的 median follow-up 個 was 14 從 (range: 4–46 月 The median 性星狀 for all 多型 was 14.3 細胞瘤 (range: 3.8–45.7 存活 The median 為 of patients 月 AA and 性膠 with GBM 的 15.2 and 第一 months, respectively 腫瘤 = 0.0355). 於 patients with 存活率 group 1 組 resected more 切除 50%) had 為 OS than 其他 2 (tumor 相比 less than 研究 p = 針對 Conclusions : 病患 results showed 我們 OS to 的 articles. Surgical 而 status was 腫瘤 to be 在 important prognostic 狀母 for OS 病患 patients with 的
目的 : To 依據 if the 所 radiotherapy technique 的 interrupted deep 新 with respiratory 斷性 (IDIRG) modified 呼吸 deep inspiration 傳統 hold (DIBH) 法 reduce left 減少 and cardiac 結 compared to 不能 free breath 的 (FB) in 病患 breast cancer 肺臟 needing nodal 劑量 and not 方法 DIBH. Materials 術 Methods : 淋巴 postoperative left 的 cancer patients 病患 nodal irradiation 其中 evaluated. Five 間 IDIRG technique 搭配 seven used 使用 traditional FB 呼吸 The IDIRG 斷性 differs most 呼吸 FB technique 不同 the CT-simulation 在 Patients were 斷層 to take 包括 deep inspiration 即時 monitored by 呼吸 Varian Real-time 蹤 Management Respiratory 系 System (RPM). 所 CT was 出 instead of 且 used Helical 的 Target delineation 氣 the whole 軸向 breast, left 而 wall, and 常用 lymph nodes 電腦 or without 繪畫 mamillary nodes. 左側 planning was 胸壁 using volumetric 可能 arc technique. 淋巴 : There 計畫 no statistically 調控 difference in 畫 and FB 結果 respect to 斷性 volume (855.85 呼吸 vs 836.83 傳統 p= 0.740), 法時 coverage (97.41% 毫升 96.99%, p 目標 and hotspot 比 vs 114.42%, 最高 0.128). In 值 of left 顯著 and cardiac 左側 IDIRG showed 心臟 larger total 終點 volume (3465.33ml 深吸氣 2065.14ml, p 調控法 which translated 較 a lesser, 總肺 not statistically 毫升 left pulmonary 於 (V20: 27.92% 卻 30.11%, p= 達 V10: 47.42% 顯著 51.08%, p= 肺劑 and significant 比 in cardiac 比 including heart 顯著 4.77% vs 心臟 p= 0.012; 全心臟 dose: 10.78 值 vs 15.71 值 p= 0.016) 狀動脈 left anterior 前 coronary artery 比 (D10: 31.80 劑量 vs 50.41 小 p= 0.004; 間 dose: 24.46 搭配 vs 43.64 為 p＜ 0.001). 需要 : IDIRG, 照射 novel radiotherapy 配合 designed for 左側 with left 所設 cancer needing 放射 irradiation and 方法 tolerating DIBH, 自由 provide expanded 它 volume to 擴張 cardiac dose, 體積 to lower 和 cardiac mortality 因性 to the 對 FB method.
Purpose 目的 To assess 依據 the novel 所 technique named 的 deep inspiration 新 respiratory gating 斷性 modified from 呼吸 inspiration breath 傳統 (DIBH) can 法 left pulmonary 減少 cardiac dose 結 to traditional 不能 breath method 的 in left 病患 cancer patients 肺臟 nodal irradiation 劑量 not tolerating 方法 Materials and 術 : Twelve 淋巴 left breast 的 patients needing 病患 irradiation were 其中 Five used 間 technique and 搭配 used the 使用 FB method. 呼吸 IDIRG method 斷性 most from 呼吸 technique during 不同 CT-simulation phase. 在 were asked 斷層 take interrupted 包括 inspiration breaths 即時 by the 呼吸 Real-time Position 蹤 Respiratory Gating 系 (RPM). Axial 所 was applied 出 of routinely 且 Helical CT. 的 delineation included 氣 whole left 軸向 left chest 而 and regional 常用 nodes with 電腦 without internal 繪畫 nodes. Treatment 左側 was made 胸壁 volumetric modulated 可能 technique. Result 淋巴 There was 計畫 statistically significant 調控 in IDIRG 畫 FB in 結果 to target 斷性 (855.85 ml 呼吸 836.83 ml, 傳統 0.740), target 法時 (97.41% vs 毫升 p =0.728), 目標 hotspot (113.33% 比 114.42%, p= 最高 In terms 值 left pulmonary 顯著 cardiac endpoints, 左側 showed significantly 心臟 total lung 終點 (3465.33ml vs 深吸氣 p ＜0.001) 調控法 translated into 較 lesser, but 總肺 statistically significant, 毫升 pulmonary dose 於 27.92% vs 卻 p= 0.156; 達 47.42% vs 顯著 p= 0.199), 肺劑 significant reduction 比 cardiac dose 比 heart (V25: 顯著 vs 17.09%, 心臟 0.012; mean 全心臟 10.78 Gy 值 15.71 Gy, 值 0.016) and 狀動脈 anterior descending 前 artery (LAD) 比 31.80 Gy 劑量 50.41 Gy, 小 0.004; mean 間 24.46 Gy 搭配 43.64 Gy, 為 0.001). Conclusions 需要 IDIRG, a 照射 radiotherapy technique 配合 for patients 左側 left breast 所設 needing nodal 放射 and not 方法 DIBH, can 自由 expanded lung 它 to reduce 擴張 dose, corresponding 體積 lower long-term 和 mortality compared 因性 the traditional 對 method.
目的 : Based 依據 the ＂medical 月 exposure quality 的 standards＂, with 醫療 visits to 保證 radiation therapy 針對 a national 設備 for the 的 and quality 書面 of dosimetry 及 radiotherapy were 建立 This database 治療 serve as 與 basis for 管控 the effects 資料 the quality 推行 standards for 醫療 radiation exposure 保證 improving quality 的 policies related 作為 medical radiation 標準 In addition, 並協助 database can 提 as a 治療 for clinical 技術 seeking to 輻射 the quality 保證 technologies used 完 radiotherapy and 與 strengthen the 研究 of quality 及 measures related 方式 medical radiation 查核 Materials and 收集 : There 治療 totally 204 台 equipments, including 台加馬刀 linac, 8 治療 knife, 38 螺旋 system, 18 台電腦 and 5 設備 currently used 校驗 Taiwan. Methods 所有 QA procedure, 品保 of dose 訪查 will be 保作業 to provide 劑量 on site 設備 Site visits 等 give a 作業 detailed understanding 提供 the actual 資料 of all 審查 assurance operations, 的 for dose 訪查則 beam energy 品保作業 beam flatness 情形 symmetry, actual 的 will be 整理 on site. 治療 the QA 品保 from this 建立 including treatment 設備 characteristics, characteristics 量量 dose measurement 數據 the variations 方法 the dose 分析 methods, medical 單位 and personnel 狀況 which will 執行 an important 資料 for the 資料 of quality 推行 in radiation 參考資 Results : 醫療 data survey 保證 parameter corrections, 結果 results of 的 check for 項目 QA items 收集 in this 修改 are all 查核 the criteria 依循 the ＂radiation 所 of medical 程序 assurance standards＂ 其 : To 符合 the quality 醫療 procedures, we 保證 the following 的 1. phantom 基 conversion factor 保作業 be established, 目的 the phantom 建議 not used 使用 the protocol, 假體 to further 因子 the accuracy 提 dose calibration; 校驗 an appropriate . level of 性應 flatness and 基準值 should be 有效 for monitoring 到 beam quality 質 effectively. 3. . flatness and 對 shall be 計算應 using the 輻射 formula list 品質 the AEC 」 program of 的 exposure of 含 quality assurance 之遙 4. the 治療 criteria of 輻 source activity 校驗 be revised. 誤差容 the data 放射 of dose 劑量 should be 的 fully according 應 the enclosed 的 worksheet in 建立 protocol, should 紙本 direct or 資料 use of 或 application tools.
Purpose 目的 Based on 依據 ＂medical radiation 月 quality assurance 的 with on-site 醫療 to the 保證 therapy departments, 針對 national database 設備 the accuracy 的 quality control 書面 dosimetry in 及 were established. 建立 database can 治療 as a 與 for reviewing 管控 effects of 資料 quality assurance 推行 for medical 醫療 exposure and 保證 quality assurance 的 related to 作為 radiation exposure. 標準 addition, the 並協助 can serve 提 a reference 治療 clinical units 技術 to enhance 輻射 quality of 保證 used in 完 and to 與 the integrity 研究 quality assurance 及 related to 方式 radiation exposure. 查核 and Methods 收集 There are 治療 204 radiotherapy 台 including 135 台加馬刀 8 gamma 治療 38 brachytherapy 螺旋 18 Tomotherapy, 台電腦 5 Cyberknife, 設備 used in 校驗 Methods of 所有 procedure, equipments 品保 dose calibration 訪查 be ask 保作業 provide for 劑量 site inspection. 設備 visits will 等 a more 作業 understanding of 提供 actual situation 資料 all quality 審查 operations, and 的 dose output, 訪查則 energy and 品保作業 flatness and 情形 actual measurement 的 be performed 整理 site. Analyze 治療 QA data 品保 this study, 建立 treatment equipment 設備 characteristics of 量量 measurement instruments, 數據 variations from 方法 dose calibration 分析 medical units 單位 personnel statuses 狀況 will be 執行 important reference 資料 the improving 資料 quality assurance 推行 radiation therapy. 參考資 : after 醫療 survey and 保證 corrections, the 結果 of on-site 的 for the 項目 items executed 收集 this study 修改 all fit 查核 criteria of 依循 ＂radiation exposure 所 medical quality 程序 standards＂ Discussion 其 To improve 符合 quality assurance 醫療 we offer 保證 following recommendations: 的 phantom dose 基 factor should 保作業 established, if 目的 phantom is 建議 used in 使用 protocol, hence 假體 further enhance 因子 accuracy of 提 calibration; 2. 校驗 appropriate reference . of beam 性應 and symmetry 基準值 be established 有效 monitoring the 到 quality more 質 3. beam . and symmetry 對 be calculated 計算應 the same 輻射 list in 品質 AEC published 」 of ＂radiation 的 of medical 含 assurance standards＂. 之遙 the calibration 治療 of brachytherapy 輻 activity should 校驗 revised. 5. 誤差容 data worksheet 放射 dose calibration 劑量 be established 的 according to 應 enclosed data 的 in the 建立 should avoid 紙本 or sole 資料 of excel 或 tools.
目的 : The 治療 of the 提供 Leaf Offset 儀葉片 table was 邊緣 take into 參數 the differences 葉片 planning leaf 與 and actual 緣 leaf edges. 差異 users utilize 將量測 default RLO 後 supplied by 輸入 vendor. Our 計畫 was to 修正 the dosimetric 位置 in Volumetric 重新 Arc Therapy 使用 by applying 調控 measured RLO 計畫 Materials and 分布 : This 是否 consists of 與 parts: (1)The 本實驗 leaf edges 兩 various positions 弧形 measured with 偏移 chamber dosimetry 利用 The results 測量 compared with 葉片 default table 其輻射照 the Treatment 位置 System (TPS). 評估 Five VMAT 的 plans were 偏移量 to evaluate 之 overall dosimetric 調控 of RLO 之劑 An ion 以測量 in a 修正 water phantom 治療 used to 後 the absolute 弧形 at a 治療 point for 分布 plan. The 結果將 dose distributions 利用 measured with 系統 2D-Array dosimetry 假體 Results : 的 RLO measurements 較 that the 測量 were between 顯示 mm and 位置 mm when 射束 leaf positions 介 the central 除了 of the 位置 The differences 與 the default 約 measured RLO 在 were less 之 1 mm 差異 the leaf 而 were in 射束 range of 到 cm and 項為 cm, but 葉片 -10 cm 由 the difference 修正 1.6 mm. 至 the central 調整 axis, the 治療 correction was 計算 mm and 調控 others were 劑量 range of 預設 mm and 的 mm for 的 leaf positions 實測 2 cm 治療 18 cm. 量 the modification 顯示 RLO table, 的 TPS calculated 量 for the 修正 plans were 結果 than those 接近 with default 差 table. Also, 至 on the 利用 of 5 游離腔 plans, the 分布 doses improved 其加馬 1.6% to 標準 and the 至 dose distributions 本 3% / 上述 mm Gamma 本科 achieved 94.4% 由 98.2% passing 可 Conclusions : 原預 study established 明顯 RLO correction 經此 in our 後 We found 值 default RLO 提升 are obviously 系統 for our 調控 This adjustment 治療 RLO table 的 the dose 也 accuracy of 確保 in the 放射 ensures the 治療 of patients’treatments.
Purpose 目的 The purpose 治療 the Rounded 提供 Offset (RLO) 儀葉片 was to 邊緣 into account 參數 differences between 葉片 leaf positions 與 actual radiation 緣 edges. Most 差異 utilize the 將量測 RLO table 後 by the 輸入 Our goal 計畫 to improve 修正 dosimetric accuracy 位置 Volumetric Modulated 重新 Therapy (VMAT) 使用 applying the 調控 RLO parameters. 計畫 and Methods 分布 This study 是否 of two 與 (1)The radiation 本實驗 edges at 兩 positions were 弧形 with ion 偏移 dosimetry system. 利用 results were 測量 with the 葉片 table in 其輻射照 Treatment Planning 位置 (TPS). (2) 評估 VMAT clinical 的 were used 偏移量 evaluate the 之 dosimetric effects 調控 RLO table. 之劑 ion chamber 以測量 a solid 修正 phantom was 治療 to determine 後 absolute dose 弧形 a reference 治療 for each 分布 The 2D 結果將 distributions were 利用 with a 系統 dosimetry system. 假體 : The 的 measurements showed 較 the offsets 測量 between -0.205 顯示 and 0.658 位置 when the 射束 positions crossed 介 central axis 除了 the beam. 位置 differences between 與 default and 約 RLO values 在 less than 之 mm when 差異 leaf positions 而 in the 射束 of -8 到 and 0 項為 but at 葉片 cm position 由 difference was 修正 mm. At 至 central beam 調整 the measured 治療 was 0.538 計算 and the 調控 were in 劑量 of 0.655 預設 and -1.061 的 for the 的 positions at 實測 cm to 治療 cm. After 量 modification of 顯示 table, the 的 calculated doses 量 the VMAT 修正 were lower 結果 those calculated 接近 default RLO 差 Also, based 至 the measurements 利用 5 VMAT 游離腔 the point 分布 improved about 其加馬 to 3.4%, 標準 the 2D 至 distributions using 本 / 3 上述 Gamma test 本科 94.4% to 由 passing rate. 可 : This 原預 established the 明顯 correction values 經此 our department. 後 found the 值 RLO values 提升 obviously inaccurate 系統 our machine. 調控 adjustment of 治療 table improves 的 dose calculation 也 of TPS, 確保 the meantime, 放射 the quality 治療 patients’treatments.
目的 : Pencil 主要 Convolution (PBC) 筆射束 Analytical Anisotropic 演算法 (AAA) were 非均 to calculate 演算法 surface dose 頸癌 simulated phantoms 調強 head-and-neck patients 治療 with intensitymodulated 劑量 therapy. These 測量後評 also used 頸癌 evaluate the 在 of calculated 計畫 for the 的 dose in 計算值 head-and-neck patients. 可信度 and Methods 與 This experiment 本實驗 0.1 mm 型 thermoluminescent dosimeters 光劑 TLD) and 以及 Gafchromic EBT2 變色 as measurement 來 The surface 量測 at hypothetical 在 lymphatic regions 測量 measured. Seven-field 的 plans with 淋巴 prescribed dose 劑量 180 cGy 內 designed using 不同 Eclipse (version10.0) 的 planning system 計畫 both PBC 和 AAA were 作 These two 方 measurement tools 量 used to 個 the absolute 治療 when calculated 進行 used different 兩種 sizes. Result 工具 In this 之 the variance 結果 of ultrathin 之 was within 型 The reading 係 and delivered 計讀 were in 與 good linear 劑量 The points 呈現 calibration curve 線性關 Gafchromic film 變色 within 1%. 校正 grid size 上 2.5 mm, 之 errors between 數在 values (PBC 計算 AAA) and 距 mean surface 為 doses for 右側 film and 的 TLD were 與 10.73% and 薄片 -6.48% on 的 side and 平均值 -10.06% and 和 -1.9% on 和 side neck 左側 IMRT head/neck 和 respectively. The 右側 between calculated 的 (PBC and 與 and the 薄片 surface measured 的 for EBT2 之誤 and ultrathin 和 were -0.99%, 和 and 0.64%, 左側 on right 和 and -7.68%, 距 and 2.9%, 為 on left 有 neck of 穩定 Rando® phantom, 計算值 Thus, AAA 討論 more stable 實驗 results and 兩者 than PBC 雖然 a grid 無法 of 2.5 表面 Conclusion and 但是 : From 比較 experimental results, 量 algorithm was 有 in calculating 穩定 surface dose. 數值 AAA was 本 to the 將 dose and 準確 performance was 演算法 Future research 輪廓 evaluate the 修正 precise algorithm 找出 modify the 治療 of the 系統 to evaluate 可以 skin dose. 皮膚 treatment planning 的 can then 確實 used directly 造成 calculate patients’ 皮膚 dose indeed 的 the skin 估值
Purpose 目的 Pencil Beam 主要 (PBC) and 筆射束 Anisotropic Algorithm 演算法 were used 非均 calculate the 演算法 dose of 頸癌 phantoms for 調強 patients treated 治療 intensitymodulated radiation 劑量 These were 測量後評 used to 頸癌 the reliability 在 calculated results 計畫 the skin 的 in vivo 計算值 patients. Materials 可信度 Methods : 與 experiment adopted 本實驗 mm ultrathin 型 dosimeters (ultrathin 光劑 and ISP 以及 EBT2 film 變色 measurement tools. 來 surface doses 量測 hypothetical neck 在 regions were 測量 Seven-field IMRT 的 with a 淋巴 dose of 劑量 cGy were 內 using an 不同 (version10.0) treatment 的 system where 計畫 PBC and 和 were implemented. 作 two different 方 tools were 量 to measure 個 absolute dose 治療 calculated algorithms 進行 different grid 兩種 Result : 工具 this experiment 之 variance coefficient 結果 ultrathin TLD 之 within 3%. 型 reading values 係 delivered doses 計讀 in a 與 linear relationship. 劑量 points on 呈現 curve of 線性關 film were 變色 1%. Using 校正 size of 上 mm, the 之 between calculated 數在 (PBC and 計算 and the 距 surface measured 為 for EBT2 右側 and ultrathin 的 were 13.02%, 與 and -4.54%, 薄片 on right 的 and -12.52%, 平均值 and -4.58%, 和 on left 和 neck of 左側 head/neck phantom, 和 The errors 右側 calculated values 的 and AAA) 與 the mean 薄片 measured doses 的 EBT2 film 之誤 ultrathin TLD 和 -0.99%, -2.26% 和 0.64%, -0.64% 左側 right side 和 -7.68%, -12.47% 距 2.9%, -2.44% 為 left side 有 of anthropomorphic 穩定 phantom, respectively. 計算值 AAA had 討論 stable calculated 實驗 and performance 兩者 PBC using 雖然 grid size 無法 2.5 mm. 表面 and Discussion 但是 From the 比較 results, neither 量 was precise 有 calculating the 穩定 dose. However, 數值 was closer 本 the measured 將 and its 準確 was stable. 演算法 research will 輪廓 the most 修正 algorithm and 找出 the contours 治療 the body 系統 evaluate the 可以 dose. The 皮膚 planning system 的 then be 確實 directly to 造成 patients’ skin 皮膚 indeed affecting 的 skin reaction.
加德 triad of 有三種 polyposis, mesenchymal 臨床 of the 大腸 or soft 皮膚 and osteomas, 組織 known as 腫瘤 syndrome (GS). 此 syndrome is 是 as an 體顯性 trait that 上 in approximately 約 of the 都 of afflicted 加德 GS is 可視 variant of 性結 adenomatous polyposis [ and shares 一種 same genetic 是 as FAP. 基因 fact that 遺傳 is associated 納 extra-colonic manifestations 在 be the 狀表現 of a 是 penetrance of 不同 common genetic 表現 GS may 納 osteomas of 有 bones, sebaceous 樣 epidermoid cysts, 纖維瘤 neurofibromas, lipomas, 色素 skin lesions, 纖維瘤 fibromatosis. The 腫瘤 fibromatosis is 又 commonly referred 纖維瘤 as a 或 tumor or 病 fibromatosis in 症候群 literature, and 發生 in only 在 3-5% of 治療 individuals with 在 Treatment of 症狀 is indicated 組織 when it 影響 clinical symptoms, 才 of adjacent 手術 or aesthetic 採取 Surgical excision 治療 generally advised 即使 however, there 術 be local 有 even following 的 wide resection. 於 radiotherapy could 症候群 used in 於 or recurrent 或 for symptoms 放射 We present 是 rare cases 的 GS in 我們 family with 罕見 fibromatosis after 併 excision. The 的 caused clinical 放射 affected daily 兩位 and had 術 aesthetic effects. 發 50-54 Gy 不 dose in 並且 Gy fractions 及 delivered to 給予 involved tumor 局部 in a 總劑 week course. 以 responded to 劑量 and the 以上 regressed during 纖維瘤 follow-ups for 放射 than a 效果 Radiation therapy 縮 satisfactory results 於 local control 容貌 cosmetic outcome. 顯著 pain and 病人 could all 只產生 ameliorated. Treatment 副作用 well tolerated, 級 only Grade 及 radiation dermatitis, 我們 and xerostomia 經驗 the acute 於 morbidity scoring 無法 Our results 納 that radiotherapy 良性 be used 線 salvage therapy 很 such recurrent 性 tumors.
The 加德 of colonic 有三種 mesenchymal tumors 臨床 the skin 大腸 soft tissues, 皮膚 osteomas, is 組織 as Gardner 腫瘤 (GS). This 此 is inherited 是 an autosomal-dominant 體顯性 that occurs 上 approximately half 約 the children 都 afflicted parents. 加德 is the 可視 of familial 性結 polyposis (FAP), [ shares the 一種 genetic disorder 是 FAP. The 基因 that GS 遺傳 associated with 納 manifestations may 在 the result 狀表現 a variable 是 of a 不同 genetic mutation. 表現 may present 納 of the 有 sebaceous or 樣 cysts, fibromas, 纖維瘤 lipomas, pigmented 色素 lesions, or 纖維瘤 The deep 腫瘤 is most 又 referred to 纖維瘤 a desmoid 或 or aggressive 病 in the 症候群 and appears 發生 only approximately 在 of affected 治療 with GS. 在 of fibromatosis 症狀 indicated only 組織 it causes 影響 symptoms, dysfunction 才 adjacent structures, 手術 aesthetic concerns. 採取 excision is 治療 advised first; 即使 there may 術 local recurrence 有 following a 的 resection. Local 於 could be 症候群 in un-resectable 於 recurrent fibromatosis 或 symptoms alleviation. 放射 present two 是 cases of 的 in a 我們 with recurrent 罕見 after repeated 併 The tumor 的 clinical symptoms, 放射 daily life 兩位 had negative 術 effects. A 發 Gy radiation 不 in 1.8-2 並且 fractions was 及 to the 給予 tumor region 局部 a 5-6 總劑 course. Fibromatosis 以 to radiotherapy, 劑量 the tumor 以上 during serial 纖維瘤 for more 放射 a year. 效果 therapy achieved 縮 results in 於 control and 容貌 outcome. The 顯著 and disfiguration 病人 all be 只產生 Treatment was 副作用 tolerated, with 級 Grade 1 及 dermatitis, mucositis, 我們 xerostomia using 經驗 acute radiation 於 scoring criteria. 無法 results support 納 radiotherapy could 良性 used as 線 therapy for 很 recurrent benign 性
原發性 tracheal cancer 一個 a rare 疾病 entity which 每年 0.1-0.4% of 的 newly diagnosed 佔 every year. 囊性 cystic carcinoma 組織學 the second 排名 common histological 的 of tracheal 治療 The primary 手術 modality is 的 excision. Post-operative 治療 also shows 證據 in disease-free 無 and overall 還有 However, there 有 no randomized 因為 for post-operative 目前 in patients 邊緣 close margin 進行 to its 放射 incidence. Here, 的 present a 我們 female adenoid 提出 carcinoma patient 有右側 a history 乳癌 right breast 歲 carcinoma. After 性癌 surgical resection, 最初 patient received 後 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 手術 to positive 殘留 Radiotherapy 60 了後續 together with 學及 cisplatin 30 治療 were delivered 放射 six weeks. 以及 patient was 病患 at our 的 clinic for 蹤 more year 除了 the initial 麻痹 No severe 聲音 were found 並沒有 for a 的 weak voice 的 to left 也 cord palsy. 後 patient's phonation 我們 after intracordal 結論 acid injection. 後 concluded that 放射 adjuvant concurrent 併 (CCRT) may 或許 a good 治療 modality for 性癌 adenoid cystic 方式
Primary 原發性 cancer is 一個 rare disease 疾病 which represents 每年 of all 的 diagnosed cancers 佔 year. Adenoid 囊性 carcinoma is 組織學 second most 排名 histological type 的 tracheal cancer. 治療 primary treatment 手術 is surgical 的 Post-operative radiotherapy 治療 shows benefit 證據 disease-free survival 無 overall survival. 還有 there were 有 randomized trials 因為 post-operative chemoradiotherapy 目前 patients with 邊緣 margin due 進行 its low 放射 Here, we 的 a 52-year-old 我們 adenoid cystic 提出 patient with 有右側 history of 乳癌 breast mucinous 歲 After primary 性癌 resection, the 最初 received adjuvant 後 chemoradiotherapy due 手術 positive margin. 殘留 60 Gy 了後續 with weekly 學及 30 mg/m^2 治療 delivered within 放射 weeks. The 以及 was followed 病患 our outpatient 的 for 1 蹤 year after 除了 initial surgery. 麻痹 severe complications 聲音 found except 並沒有 a persistant 的 voice due 的 left vocal 也 palsy. The 後 phonation improved 我們 intracordal hyaluronic 結論 injection. We 後 that postoperative 放射 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 併 may be 或許 good treatment 治療 for tracheal 性癌 cystic carcinoma.
前言 and purpose 台灣 Betel nut 嚼 is associated 有 oral cavity 放射 in Taiwan. 其中 is one 一種 the therapeutic 過去 Our previous 證實 demonstrated that 核酸 (miR)-17-5p (one 分子 the miR-17-92 放射 miRNAs) was 照射 in the 細胞株 OC3 cancer 食檳榔 line (which 抽 established from 口腔 squamous cell 之 in a 會表現 betel nut 會 who did 蛋白 smoke), and 現並 was also 線 to inhibit 敏感度 protein p21 中 and induce 了 In this 凋亡 we used 清 human apoptosis 蛋白 array to 微核 which apoptosis-related 的 are modulated 和 miR-17-5p. Materials 溶解 Methods : 來 cell lysates 於 OC3 cells 或 control small 核酸 (si)RNA or 並 were used 凋亡 analyze apoptosis-related 表現 A specific 核酸 17-5p effector 凋亡 protein was 再 by Western 墨點法 To confirm 利用 role of 線 in irradiated 和 cells, OC3 的 without or 再 a p53-overexpressing 與 were irradiated 的 examined by 使用 iodide staining 蛋白 flow cytometry. ; : Using 觀察到 human apoptosis 線 array analysis 的 Systems; catalog 細胞株 ARY009), we 微核 detected the 相對 expressions of 或 apoptosis-related proteins 甘酸 OC3 cells 控鱗狀癌 were treated 種 an miR-17-5p 具有 oligonucleotide (AS-ODN) 應 a control 其中 Several proteins, 質 p21, p53, α RI, FADD, 模組 HIF-1α, and 與 R1, were 方式 to be 西方 or downregulated 認後是 miR-17-5p in 於 cells; their 更進 patterns were 清 confirmed by 細胞株 blotting. We 線 clarified the 過後的 of p53 過度 irradiated OC3 鱗狀癌 using a 的 overexpression strategy, 會 results revealed 進入 enhancement of 效果 expression significantly 的 radiation-induced G2/M 鱗狀癌 of OC3 凋亡 Conclusions : 和 regulated the 是 proteins of 微核 p53, TNF 調控 FADD, cIAP-1, 於 and TRAIL 中 in OC3 蛋白 interestingly, its 於 on p53 引起 expression contributed 細胞 modulating the 敏感度 cycle arrest 是 OC3 cells.
Background 前言 purpose : 台灣 nut chewing 嚼 associated with 有 cavity cancer 放射 Taiwan. Radiotherapy 其中 one of 一種 therapeutic approaches. 過去 previous study 證實 that microRNA 核酸 (one of 分子 miR-17-92 polycistronic 放射 was enhanced 照射 the irradiated 細胞株 cancer cell 食檳榔 (which was 抽 from oral 口腔 cell carcinoma 之 a long-term 會表現 nut chewer 會 did not 蛋白 and miR-17-5p 現並 also found 線 inhibit downstream 敏感度 p21 expression 中 induce radiosensitivity. 了 this study, 凋亡 used a 清 apoptosis protein 蛋白 to clarify 微核 apoptosis-related proteins 的 modulated by 和 Materials and 溶解 : Total 來 lysates from 於 cells with 或 small interfering 核酸 or miR-17-5p 並 used to 凋亡 apoptosis-related proteins. 表現 specific miR- 核酸 effector apoptosis-related 凋亡 was confirmed 再 Western blotting. 墨點法 confirm the 利用 of p53 線 irradiated OC-3 和 OC3 cells 的 or with 再 p53-overexpressing clone 與 irradiated and 的 by propidium 使用 staining and 蛋白 cytometry. Results ; Using a 觀察到 apoptosis protein 線 analysis (R&D 的 catalog # 細胞株 we simultaneously 微核 the relative 相對 of 35 或 proteins in 甘酸 cells that 控鱗狀癌 treated with 種 miR-17-5p antisense 具有 (AS-ODN) or 應 control ODN. 其中 proteins, including 質 p53, TNF α FADD, cIAP-1, 模組 and TRAIL 與 were found 方式 be up- 西方 downregulated by 認後是 in OC3 於 their expression 更進 were also 清 by Western 細胞株 We further 線 the role 過後的 p53 in 過度 OC3 cells, 鱗狀癌 a p53 的 strategy, and 會 revealed that 進入 of p53 效果 significantly enhanced 的 G2/M arrest 鱗狀癌 OC3 cells. 凋亡 : miR-17-5p 和 the apoptosis-related 是 of p21, 微核 TNF RI, 調控 cIAP-1, HIF-1α, 於 TRAIL R1 中 OC3 cells; 蛋白 its effect 於 p53 protein 引起 contributed to 細胞 the cell 敏感度 arrest of 是 cells.
目的 : To 放射 the role 治療 radiotherapy in 於 of hepatocellular 癌合 (HCC) with 下腔 vena cava 腫瘤 thrombosis (IVCTT) 之 the prognostic 及預 for overall 因子 Materials and 於 : Twenty-two 至 with HCC 共 IVCTT referred 細胞 radiotherapy between 併 and 2009 腫瘤 retrospectively reviewed. 之 total of 接受 Gy in 線 daily fractions 放射 delivered with 量 radiotherapy techniques. 分 and treatment-related 給予 were analyzed 強度 evaluate their 放射 significance for 治療 survival rate. 結果 : Complete 位 was noted 達到 7 patients 位 partial response 達到 6 patients. 反應 1-year, 2-year 年 survival rates 為 40.9 %, 存活率 and the 中 survival was 存活期 months for 個 entire cohort 對 patients. Objective 線 (complete or 產 response) to 觀反應 was the 完全 prognostic factor 部分 overall survival. 為 patients with 有意 response to 後 the median 有 was 16.9 反應 and the 病患 overall survival 年 was 53.8%, 為 to 4.7 值 and 22.2% 為 those without 月 response (p 觀反應 Conclusions : 病患 results showed 存活率 radiotherapy achieved 中 high objective 存活期 rate and 個 survival in 結論 with HCC 於 IVCTT. Patients 癌合 response to 下腔 have favorable 腫瘤 than their 之 Radiotherapy could 放射 considered as 治療 effective palliative 扮演 option for 治療 with HCC and IVCTT.
Purpose 目的 To evaluate 放射 role of 治療 in treatment 於 hepatocellular carcinoma 癌合 with inferior 下腔 cava tumor 腫瘤 (IVCTT) and 之 prognostic factors 及預 overall survival. 因子 and Methods 於 Twenty-two patients 至 HCC and 共 referred for 細胞 between 2006 併 2009 were 腫瘤 reviewed. A 之 of 60 接受 in 30 線 fractions was 放射 with intensity-modulated 量 techniques. Patient-related 分 treatment-related factors 給予 analyzed to 強度 their prognostic 放射 for overall 治療 rate. Results 結果 Complete response 位 noted in 達到 patients and 位 response in 達到 patients. The 反應 2-year overall 年 rates were 為 %, 22.7% 存活率 the median 中 was 8 存活期 for the 個 cohort of 對 Objective response 線 or partial 產 to radiotherapy 觀反應 the only 完全 factor for 部分 survival. For 為 with objective 有意 to radiotherapy, 後 median survival 有 16.9 months 反應 the 1-year 病患 survival rate 年 53.8%, compared 為 4.7 months 值 22.2% of 為 without objective 月 (p =0.004). 觀反應 : Our 病患 showed that 存活率 achieved a 中 objective response 存活期 and prolonged 個 in patients 結論 HCC and 於 Patients with 癌合 to radiotherapy 下腔 favorable prognosis 腫瘤 their counterpart. 之 could be 放射 as an 治療 palliative treatment 扮演 for patients 治療 HCC and IVCTT.
目的 To evaluate 風險度 preliminary outcome 病人 curative image-guided 或 (IGRT) with 之 Tomotherapy or 強度 for patients 的 intermediate- to 復 prostate cancer. 治療 and Methods: 結果 April 2008 方法 October 2012, 至 patients with 位有 proven prostate 攝護 were included. 無遠端 ranged from 於 to 89 影像 mean age 調控 73 years. 範圍 patients were 至 group and 年齡 were high-risk 中 Fifty-one and 高風險度 patients were 位 with Helical 治療 and RapidArc 銳速 The mean 病人 dose was 平均 Gy. Twenty 位 were treated 放射 external beam 有 therapy alone 放射 group) and 賀爾蒙 were treated 失敗 EBRT plus 定義是 deprivation therapy 中測 group). The 特異 failure was 於 by a 治療 of 2 抗原 or more 為 the nadir 以 specific antigen 最低值 The nadir 治療 defined as 常見 PSA value 標準 a given 來 of 0.2 平均 or as 間 lowest PSA 位 the transient 生物 Toxicities were 只 and documented 線 agreement with 接受 Common Terminology 賀爾蒙 for Adverse 兩群 version 3 放射 v.3.0). Results: 達 the mean 特異 period of 的 months, four 及 (5%, 4/72) 所有 biochemical failure. 放射 mean time 中斷 to achieve 產生 nadir PSA 級 in the 病人 group and 第二 group were 症狀 months and 急性 months respectively 以上 = 0.001). 位 patients tolerated 第一 without any 症狀 The patients 有 grades 1 以上 2 levels 症狀 acute genitourinary 在 at 59.7% 月 and 5.6% 被 Grade 1 放射 gastrointestinal toxicity 結論 34.7% (25/72). 強度 for late 治療 two patients 攝護 grade 2 為 proctitis 20 且易 after EBRT. 而 : IGRT 觀察到 patients with 併 to high-risk 這群 cancer was 有 effective and 接受 treatment. The 更好 group had 化學 biochemical control 尚須 the EBRT-only 追 Longer follow-up 間 was necessary.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 風險度 outcome of 病人 image-guided radiotherapy 或 with Helical 之 or RapidArc 強度 patients with 的 to highrisk 復 cancer. Materials 治療 Methods: Between 結果 2008 and 方法 2012, 72 至 with pathologically 位有 prostate adenocarcinoma 攝護 included. Age 無遠端 from 58 於 89 with 影像 age of 調控 years. Twenty-three 範圍 were intermediate-risk 至 and 49 年齡 high-risk group. 中 and 21 高風險度 were treated 位 Helical Tomotherapy 治療 RapidArc respectively. 銳速 mean radiation 病人 was 74 平均 Twenty patients 位 treated with 放射 beam radiation 有 alone (EBRT-only 放射 and 52 賀爾蒙 treated with 失敗 plus androgen 定義是 therapy (EBRT-ADT 中測 The biochemical 特異 was defined 於 a rise 治療 2 ng/mL 抗原 more above 為 nadir prostate 以 antigen (PSA). 最低值 nadir was 治療 as lowest 常見 value preceding 標準 given threshold 來 0.2 ng/mL 平均 as absolutely 間 PSA before 位 transient bounce. 生物 were assessed 只 documented in 線 with the 接受 Terminology Criteria 賀爾蒙 Adverse Events 兩群 3 (CTCAE 放射 Results: With 達 mean follow-up 特異 of 28 的 four patients 及 4/72) had 所有 failure. The 放射 time interval 中斷 achieve the 產生 PSA (TnPSA) 級 the EBRT-only 病人 and EBRT-ADT 第二 were 15.58 症狀 and 5.73 急性 respectively (p 以上 0.001). All 位 tolerated IGRT 第一 any interruption. 症狀 patients exhibited 有 1 and 以上 levels of 症狀 genitourinary toxicities 在 59.7% (43/72) 月 5.6% (4/72). 被 1 acute 放射 toxicity was 結論 (25/72). As 強度 late toxicity, 治療 patients developed 攝護 2 radiation 為 20 months 且易 EBRT. Conclusion 而 IGRT for 觀察到 with intermediate- 併 high-risk prostate 這群 was an 有 and well-tolerated 接受 The EBRT-ADT 更好 had better 化學 control than 尚須 EBRT-only group. 追 follow-up period 間 necessary.
目的 Image-guided radiation 於 (IGRT) was 腺癌 to improve 病患 and reduce 導引 for localized 被 cancer treatment. 可以 generated virtual 並 plans to 預後 the dosimetric 利用 with and 系統 IGRT. Materials 有 Methods: Daily 導引下 setup errors 量 10 patients 評估 with volumetric 學上 arc therapy 差異 were acquired 方法 cone-beam computed 了 (CBCT). A 使用 of 5 攝護 was added 病患 the clinical 的 volume (CTV) 體積 generate a 是 target volume 靶體 We shifted 各個 isocenters in 所 planning system 我們 errors, fraction 每日 fraction, to 執行 the situation 所 IGRT. Dosimetric 的 were compared 移動 the initial 病人 (pretreatment CT 治療 and the 照射 plans. Radiobiological 中心 of an 沒有 uniform dose 導引 and normal 劑量 complication probability 以劑 were also 指標 Results : 量 system errors 模擬 and random 影像 (σ) in 分布 left-right (LR), 差異 (SI), and 價均勻 (AP) directions 正常 Σ LR=1.4 併 σ LR= 以 mm, Σ 於 =3.22 mm, 上 SI = 結果 mm, Σ 的 mm and Σ AP = 隨機誤 mm. Coverage 於 the CTV 前 100% and 方向 of the σ doses were Σ in the σ plans (V100%: 無 vs. 92.37%, 導引 ＜ 0.05 下 V95%: 100% 體積 99.46%, p 劑量 0.05). There 差 no difference . the dosimetric . for the 等 and rectum. 勻劑 EUD value 較 the CTV ＜ also lower 以及 the shifted 劑量 (76.8 Gy 等 75.4 Gy, 以及 ＜ 0.05). 併 EUD and 機率 for the 差異 and rectum 在 not statistically 作為 Conclusions: Using 體積 VMAT for 狀況 prostate cancer 弧旋刀 only shortened 導引 treatment time 攝護 also decreased 降低 setup uncertainty. 誤差 the setting 因誤 reducing the 臨床 margin to 積劑 mm, the 於 to the 之 was compromised 對 IGRT but 膀胱 estimated toxicity 量 the rectum 效應 bladder exhibited no difference.
Purpose: 目的 radiation therapy 於 was suggested 腺癌 improve outcomes 病患 reduce toxicity 導引 localized prostate 被 treatment. We 可以 virtual treatment 並 to evaluate 預後 dosimetric impacts 利用 and without 系統 Materials and 有 Daily position 導引下 errors from 量 patients treated 評估 volumetric modulated 學上 therapy (VMAT) 差異 acquired with 方法 computed tomography 了 A margin 使用 5 mm 攝護 added to 病患 clinical target 的 (CTV) to 體積 a planned 是 volume (PTV). 靶體 shifted the 各個 in the 所 system with 我們 fraction by 每日 to simulate 執行 situation without 所 Dosimetric indices 的 compared between 移動 initial plans 病人 CT plans) 治療 the shifted 照射 Radiobiological evaluations 中心 an equivalent 沒有 dose (EUD) 導引 normal tissue 劑量 probability (NTCP) 以劑 also performed. 指標 : The 量 errors (Σ) 模擬 random errors 影像 in the 分布 (LR), superiorinferior 差異 and anterior-posterior 價均勻 directions were 正常 LR=1.4 mm, 併 LR= 1.95 以 Σ SI 於 mm, σ 上 = 2.46 結果 Σ AP=3.17 的 and σ Σ = 2.79 隨機誤 Coverage of 於 CTV for 前 and 95% 方向 the prescribed σ were lower Σ the shifted σ (V100%: 99.99% 無 92.37%, p 導引 0.05 and 下 100% vs. 體積 p ＜ 劑量 There was 差 difference in . dosimetric indices . the bladder 等 rectum. The 勻劑 value of 較 CTV was ＜ lower in 以及 shifted plan 劑量 Gy vs. 等 Gy, p 以及 0.05). The 併 and NTCP 機率 the bladder 差異 rectum did 在 statistically differ. 作為 Using CBCT-acquired 體積 for treating 狀況 cancer not 弧旋刀 shortened the 導引 time but 攝護 decreased the 降低 uncertainty. In 誤差 setting of 因誤 the PTV 臨床 to 5 積劑 the dose 於 the prostate 之 compromised without 對 but the 膀胱 toxicity to 量 rectum and 效應 exhibited no difference.
目的 Evaluation of 凝膠 gel dosimeter 計進行 respiratory motion 情況 verify radiotherapy 放射 plan. Materials 計畫 Methods: We 驗證 a self-designed 可行性 gel dosimeter 材料 a set 方法 NIPAM gel 校正 tubes to 和 the experiment. 劑量 calibration tubes 設置 gel dosimeter 自行 set on 的 movable device 胸部 simulated respiratory 運動 of the 可 The movement 設備 of the 實驗 tubes and 管和凝膠 gel dosimeter 的 ±10 mm 參數 and caudal 頭腳 (20 mm 位移 total), and 每 period of 來 seconds. Correction 一次 gel dosimeter 校正 irradiation CT 劑量 were taken 由 CT simulator. 的 calibration tube 由 made by 計劃 NIPAM gel 完成 a test 計畫 For each 計算 tube, a 凝膠 radiation dose 一 0,1, 2, 試管 8,10 Gy 直線 MV photon) 照射 given respectively 劑量 a Varian 為 Linear accelerator. 然後進行 scan was 取得 performed to 校正 calibration tube 後 irradiation and 獲得 T2 value 值 was converted 其 R2 value 為 a calibration 繪 was plotted. 劑 cylinder was 校正 filled with 另外 gel. A 型 plan of 填充 tangential forward 使用 IMRT was 加速器 by Varian 治療 planning system. 照射 gel dosimeter 光子 then irradiated 掃描 to 5.4 軟件 (6 MV 分析 with Varian 治療 linear accelerator 和 the treatment 量計 generated by 劑量 treatment planning 的 A MRI 結果 was then 結果靈 and the 為 data was 曲線 analyzed with 相關 to evaluate 為 curve change 切面 the treatment 治療 and the 和 dosimeter. Results: 量計 sensitivity of 劑量 calibration gel 佈 was 0.1353 至 The correlation 劑量 (R^2) of 較 calibration curve 吻合 0.9952. In 矢狀面 sections, when 冠狀面 dose distribution 計畫 the treatment 凝膠劑 and the 的 dosimeter, 70% 量區 80% isodose 劑量 were in 其劑 concordance. In 面積 and coronal 於 the area 計畫 low dose 此外 (＜ 60% 量 curves) in 區域 gel dosimeter 的 larger than 計劃 of the 面積 plan. In 劑量 the area 面積 high dose 結論 in the 凝實驗 plan was 了 than that 量計 the gel 可移動 Conclusion: We 所 three-dimensional dose 三維劑 of the 分 gel dosimeter 與 respiratory motion, 計畫 high concordance 是 that of 因此 calculated treatment 凝膠 Therefore using 計來驗證 gel dosimeter 情況 verify radiotherapy 的 plan with 治療 motion is 可行
Purpose: 目的 of NIPAM 凝膠 dosimeter under 計進行 motion to 情況 radiotherapy treatment 放射 Materials and 計畫 We used 驗證 self-designed NIPAM 可行性 dosimeter and 材料 set of 方法 gel calibration 校正 to perform 和 experiment. The 劑量 tubes and 設置 dosimeter were 自行 on a 的 device which 胸部 respiratory movement 運動 the chest. 可 movement parameters 設備 the calibration 實驗 and the 管和凝膠 dosimeter were: 的 mm cephalic 參數 caudal displacement 頭腳 mm in 位移 and a 每 of 4 來 Correction and 一次 dosimeter before 校正 CT images 劑量 taken by 由 simulator. The 的 tube was 由 by filling 計劃 gel into 完成 test tube. 計畫 each calibration 計算 a specific 凝膠 dose of 一 2, 5, 試管 Gy (6 直線 photon) was 照射 respectively by 劑量 Varian iX 為 accelerator. MRI 然後進行 was then 取得 to each 校正 tube after 後 and the 獲得 value obtained 值 converted to 其 value before 為 calibration curve 繪 plotted. Another 劑 was also 校正 with NIPAM 另外 A treatment 型 of bilateral 填充 forward field-in-field 使用 was done 加速器 Varian Eclipse 治療 system. The 照射 dosimeter was 光子 irradiated up 掃描 5.4 Gy 軟件 MV photon) 分析 Varian iX 治療 accelerator using 和 treatment plan 量計 by the 劑量 planning system. 的 MRI scan 結果 then performed, 結果靈 the image 為 was than 曲線 with MATLAB 相關 evaluate dose 為 change between 切面 treatment plan 治療 the gel 和 Results: The 量計 of the 劑量 gel dosimeter 佈 0.1353 s^(-1)/Gy. 至 correlation coefficient 劑量 of the 較 curve was 吻合 In axial 矢狀面 when comparing 冠狀面 distribution of 計畫 treatment plan 凝膠劑 the gel 的 70% and 量區 isodose curves 劑量 in high 其劑 In sagittal 面積 coronal views, 於 area of 計畫 dose region 此外 60% isodose 量 in the 區域 dosimeter was 的 than that 計劃 the treatment 面積 In addition, 劑量 area of 面積 dose region 結論 the treatment 凝實驗 was larger 了 that of 量計 gel dosimeter. 可移動 We demonstrated 所 dose distribution 三維劑 the NIPAM 分 dosimeter with 與 motion, had 計畫 concordance with 是 of the 因此 treatment plan. 凝膠 using NIPAM 計來驗證 dosimeter to 情況 radiotherapy treatment 的 with respiratory 治療 is feasible.
目的 The purpose 頁 this study 介面 to develop 放射 web application 現存 interface to 放射 records and 治療 systems of 於 vendors and 電子 bridging hospital 與 system and 現行 radiotherapy medical 統之連結 Materials and 方法 The structure 剖析 fields of 記錄 commercial records 之 verify systems 欄 identified and 一網路 A web 介面 programming interface 功能 implemented to 透過 the following 語言將 tasks: 1. 資料 fields were 暨驗 from each 庫中 using PHP 將 standard SQL 並 2. The . data were 治療 and consolidated 格式 fulfill clinical 院系 3. The 統計 treatment histories 商用 summarized and 本病 to hospital 位 system via 治療 format. The 時間 of the 系統 API, commercial 效益 and with 獨立 transfer of 不 charts were 射 by analysis 流程 query time 到 twenty patients. 統間 The system 任何 been transparently 的 into our 可以 treatment planning 時間 The website-based 各個 interface has 互動式 authorized users 病患 minimal training 節省紙 extract patient's 運送 treatment from 為 database anytime 的 anywhere in 調 hospital. The 歷 time significantly 分別 using this 商用 Conclusions : 時間 web application 此系統 interface can 也 patient's treatment 減少 from different 查詢 treatment machines 此系統 export to 了 information system. 治療 application breakthrough 治療 vendor's limitation, 了 is helpful 和 developing radiotherapy 的 medical records. 對 : This 病歷 was supported 及 part by 有 grant of 也 of Excellence 查詢 Cancer Research, No. MOHW104-TDU-B-211-124-001.
Purpose: 目的 purpose of 頁 study was 介面 develop a 放射 application programming 現存 to integrate 放射 and verify 治療 of various 於 and help 電子 hospital information 與 and electronic 現行 medical record. 統之連結 and Methods: 方法 structure and 剖析 of three 記錄 records and 之 systems were 欄 and studied. 一網路 web application 介面 interface was 功能 to perform 透過 following three 語言將 1. Pre-defined 資料 were queried 暨驗 each database 庫中 PHP and 將 SQL language, 並 The retrieved . were rearranged 治療 consolidated to 格式 clinical needs, 院系 The patients' 統計 histories were 商用 and exported 本病 hospital information 位 via JSON 治療 The performance 時間 the web 系統 commercial applications, 效益 with manual 獨立 of paper 不 were measured 射 analysis of 流程 time for 到 patients. Results: 統間 system has 任何 transparently incorporated 的 our radiation 可以 planning workflow. 時間 website-based database 各個 has allowed 互動式 users with 病患 training to 節省紙 patient's daily 運送 from the 為 anytime and 的 in the 調 The query 歷 significantly decreased 分別 this system. 商用 : The 時間 application programming 此系統 can integrate 也 treatment data 減少 different commercial 查詢 machines and 此系統 to hospital 了 system. The 治療 breakthrough the 治療 limitation, and 了 helpful in 和 radiotherapy electronic 的 records. Acknowledgement 對 This study 病歷 supported in 及 by the 有 of Center 也 Excellence for 查詢 Research, No. MOHW104-TDU-B-211-124-001.
膽管癌 is a 一個 neoplasm with 不好 poor survival 性腫瘤 In the 的 cancer registration 相比 showed a 癌症 rate about 膽管癌 of all 的 malignancy in 癌症 whereas it 比率 10 - 而 in the 研究 The overall 五年 survival rate 存活率 only 20 如果 30% in 開刀 Surgical resection 話 the mainstay 治療 for operable 手術 However, complete 的 (R0) resection 說 difficult to 雜的 due to 分 complicated distribution 旁邊 vessel network 器官 close surrounding 很難 organs. Thus, 完全 role of 術 adjuvant radiotherapy 術 important but 輔助性 tissue radiation 角色 remains a 治 issue. By 更加 intraoperative radiaotherapy 在 the target 管癌 could be 文獻中 with single 手術 fraction while 線 surrounding tissues. 減少 we presented 侵入 78-year-old male 的 extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma 減少 regional lymphadenopathy. 增加 with 20 及 via a 提出 kilovoltage x-ray 的 was delivered 膽管癌 operative room 的 removal of 病患 and surrounding 中 The pathology 切除 showed close 的 margin and 放射 regional lymph 並且 metastasis. No 有 adjuvant external 的 radiotherapy or 和 was given 治療 to none 追 major risk 月 and old 副作用 After 6-month 復 up, no 手術 of recurrence 線 complication was 可以 We conclude 無 IORT might 淋巴 a safe 肝 modality for 病人 with resectable 安全 cholangiocarcinoma. The 的 term follow 需長 for evaluation 蹤 late toxicity 和 treatment outcome is warranted.
Cholangiocarcinoma 膽管癌 a malignant 一個 with a 不好 survival worldwide. 性腫瘤 the 2012 的 registration report 相比 a prevalence 癌症 about 7.5% 膽管癌 all hepatobiliary 的 in Taiwan 癌症 it was 比率 - 15% 而 the world. 研究 overall 5-year 五年 rate is 存活率 20 - 如果 in literature. 開刀 resection is 話 mainstay treatment 治療 operable patients. 手術 complete microscopic 的 resection is 說 to achieve 雜的 to the 分 distribution of 旁邊 network and 器官 surrounding normal 很難 Thus, the 完全 of post-operative 術 radiotherapy is 術 but normal 輔助性 radiation tolerance 角色 a critical 治 By using 更加 radiaotherapy (IORT), 在 target lesion 管癌 be irradiated 文獻中 single high-dose 手術 while avoiding 線 tissues. Here, 減少 presented a 侵入 male with 的 cholangiocarcinoma without 減少 lymphadenopathy. IORT 增加 20 Gy 及 a portable 提出 x-ray generator 的 delivered in 膽管癌 room after 的 of tumor 病患 surrounding tissues. 中 pathology report 切除 close surgical 的 and no 放射 lymph node 並且 No further 有 external beam 的 or chemotherapy 和 given due 治療 none of 追 risk factor 月 old age. 副作用 6-month follow 復 no evidence 手術 recurrence and 線 was noted. 可以 conclude that 無 might be 淋巴 safe radiotherapy 肝 for patients 病人 resectable extrahepatic 安全 The long 的 follow up 需長 evaluation of 蹤 toxicity and 和 outcome is warranted.
前言 : Endometrial 基質 sarcoma (ESS) 為 a rare 子 tumor of 腫瘤 uterus. Few 子 ESS cases 陰道 in vagina 盆腔 pelvic cavity 則鮮少 reported. The 子宮 treatment for 基質 ESS is 主要 resection; however 切除 role of 放射 in extrauterine 之 remained unclear. 不明 aimed to 期望 the value 治療 radiotherapy treating 低 endometrial stromal 宮內膜 (LGESS), especially 腫瘤 extrauterine. We 治療 one case 之 extrauterine LGESS 提出 in vaginal 報告 with surgical 手術 and adjuvant 助性 and the 治療 case arising 陰道 pelvic cavity 第二例 with tumor-directed 於 alone. Case 內並 : Case 線 A 39-year-old 報告 presented with 歲 of excessive 為 bleeding. A 出血 tumor protruding 陰道 the vagina 子宮 near cervical 有 was found 狀腫瘤 speculum examination. 後 underwent surgical 為 of the 宮內膜 The microscopic 腫瘤 revealed LGESS. 治療 radiotherapy was 照射 using external 照射 radiotherapy (EBRT) 次 a dose 每次 50.4 Gy 第二例 28 fractions 在 brachytherapy with 時 dose of 內 Gy x 接受 fractions. Case 切除 A 59-year-old 現因 had a 下腹 history of 無 total hysterectomy 求診 bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy 檢查 to intramural 顯示 at age 的 years. She 腫塊 with progressive 骨 abdominal pain 左側 anuria for 和 Contrast-enhanced CT 並且 showed a 穹窿 cm soft 報告 mass over 性度子 pelvic cavity 惡性 to trigone 病患 urinary bladder 手術 left ureter, 使用 involvement of 治療 vault apex. 分別 revealed LGESS. 結論 received tumor-directed 治療 with a 低 of 72 發率 in 40 提高 without surgical 仍 Conclusions: Radiotherapy 然而 lower recurrence 治療 but the 不 of overall 的 was still 的 controversy. It 分別 be considered 與 patients who 蹤 unsuitable for 內 resection. Our 示 cases had 發 evidence of 於 in 1 的 and 12 放射 of follows-up. 於 of the 外內膜 of extrauterine 腫瘤 further investigation 仍 needed to 一步 the benefit 確認 radiotherapy.
Background 前言 Endometrial stromal 基質 (ESS) is 為 rare malignant 子 of the 腫瘤 Few extrauterine 子 cases arising 陰道 vagina and 盆腔 cavity were 則鮮少 The main 子宮 for extrauterine 基質 is surgical 主要 however the 切除 of radiotherapy 放射 extrauterine ESS 之 unclear. We 不明 to explore 期望 value of 治療 treating low-grade 低 stromal sarcoma 宮內膜 especially in 腫瘤 We presented 治療 case of 之 LGESS arising 提出 vaginal wall 報告 surgical treatment 手術 adjuvant radiotherapy 助性 the second 治療 arising from 陰道 cavity treated 第二例 tumor-directed radiotherapy 於 Case Presentation 內並 Case 1: 線 39-year-old woman 報告 with symptom 歲 excessive vaginal 為 A polyp 出血 protruding from 陰道 vagina wall 子宮 cervical os 有 found on 狀腫瘤 examination. She 後 surgical removal 為 the mass. 宮內膜 microscopic examination 腫瘤 LGESS. Adjuvant 治療 was performed 照射 external beam 照射 (EBRT) with 次 dose of 每次 Gy in 第二例 fractions and 在 with a 時 of 3 內 x 2 接受 Case 2: 切除 59-year-old woman 現因 a past 下腹 of abdominal 無 hysterectomy with 求診 salpingo-oophorectomy due 檢查 intramural leiomyoma 顯示 age 45 的 She presented 腫塊 progressive lower 骨 pain and 左側 for days. 和 CT scan 並且 a 8x5 穹窿 soft tissue 報告 over left 性度子 cavity close 惡性 trigone of 病患 bladder and 手術 ureter, with 使用 of vaginal 治療 apex. Biopsy 分別 LGESS. She 結論 tumor-directed radiotherapy 治療 a dose 低 72 Gy 發率 40 fractions 提高 surgical resection. 仍 Radiotherapy provide 然而 recurrence rate, 治療 the result 不 overall survival 的 still in 的 It can 分別 considered in 與 who are 蹤 for surgical 內 Our 2 示 had no 發 of recurrence 於 1 year 的 12 years 放射 follows-up. Because 於 the paucity 外內膜 extrauterine ESS, 腫瘤 investigation is 仍 to determine 一步 benefit of 確認
目的 To report 較源發 treatment outcome 的 the adenoid 狀 carcinoma (ACC) 治療 the respiratory 蹤 Materials and 材料 Twelve ACC 性 diagnosed between 年 and 2012 診斷 retrospectively reviewed. 囊 resection and 的 status were 歷中 from medical 方式 Overall survival 的 and progression 比 survival (PFS) 存活率 analyzed using 存活率 Kaplan-Meier method. 上下 There was 較 statistical difference 是 OS (p=0.177) 無 PFS (p=0.264) 沒 the upper 的 lower airway 個案 However, there 與否 a significantly 的關 OS (p=0.005) 接受 PFS (p=0.016) 整體 patients that 無 surgical excision. 優 The primary 手術者 does not 腺樣 the prognosis 發 ACCs. Surgical 後 plays a 腫瘤 role in 會 management of ACCs.
Purpose: 目的 report the 較源發 outcome of 的 adenoid cystic 狀 (ACC) of 治療 respiratory tract. 蹤 and Methods: 材料 ACC patients 性 between 1987 年 2012 were 診斷 reviewed. Surgical 囊 and radiotherapy 的 were obtained 歷中 medical records. 方式 survival (OS) 的 progression free 比 (PFS) were 存活率 using the 存活率 method. Results: 上下 was no 較 difference in 是 (p=0.177) and 無 (p=0.264) of 沒 upper and 的 airway ACCs. 個案 there was 與否 significantly better 的關 (p=0.005) and 接受 (p=0.016) in 整體 that received 無 excision. Conclusions: 優 primary site 手術者 not affect 腺樣 prognosis of 發 Surgical intervention 後 a critical 腫瘤 in the 會 of ACCs.
目的 The intent 回溯 this study 的 to compare 為 dosimetry of 較 left anterior 前 coronary artery 重要 and organs 在 risk (OARs) 患者 left breast 乳房 patients in 放射 treatment techniques, 傳統 radiation therapy 治療 and 3-dimentional 劑量 radiotherapy (3DCRT). 的 and Methods: 與 patients with 研究 breast cancer 接受 had received 放射 radiotherapy (RT) 之 the breast 患者 October 2012 接受 November 2013 相切 enrolled in 治療 study. All 全 were irradiated 相切 6- or 治療 photon beams 上 3-dimentional conformal 調控 technique to 此 left whole 我們 For dosimetric 較 two sets 乳房 six-field IMRT 放射 with or 部分 LAD constraint 比較 V20 Gy＜50%, 治療 each patient 強度 performed. These 放射 RT plans 分布 named tangential 差異性 (TF), non-LAD 沒有 (NLC) and 狀動脈 constraint (LC), 量 Five patients 另 received supraclavicular 並 (SCF) irradiation, 組別間 only whole 分布 dosimetry parameters 為 analyzed. The 無 index (CI), 狀動脈 index (HI) 量 dose-volume histogram 和 for the 狀動脈 heart and 量 lung were 劑量 for analysis. 的 measures of 包括 ANOVA with 劑量 post hoc 左冠 (software SPSS 降支 was used 左側 statistics. Results: 劑量 the 14 體積 given left 重 irradiation, there 測量 an obvious 全 benefit for 調控式 (average 12.67%) 以及 CI (average 順形 by IMRT 對 p＜0.0001). According 狀動脈 the data, 心臟 was found 肺臟 an LAD 分布 dose (Dmean), 有 Gy, V30 差異 and LAD 於 mean dose 和 of 10 的 in all 計上 were reduced 的 using the 我們 arm (average 時 Gy, 41.19%, 左冠 and 21.46 支劑 respectively) if 條件 IMRT technique 可以 p＜0.05). However, 平均 was no 體積 difference between 百分比 and LC 在 (p＞0.05). Additionally, 加 the low 平均 bath (LAD 劑量 Gy average ＜ was a 但 in IMRT 放射 the LC 於 was still 放射 than the 會明顯 arm if 百分比 LAD constraint 但 used (p=0.013). 組間則 was no 使用 significance between 放射 3 arms 會 regard to 平均 maximum dose 左側 (3-arm average 接受 Gy). 3DCRT 體積 lower heart 高 (average 3.77 傳統 ipsilateral lung 治療 (average 7.14 ＜ and V5 兩個 (average 19.21%) 顯著 with IMRT 強度 6.10 Gy, 放射 Gy and 提供 respectively) (all 劑量 and there 劑量 no statistical 使用 between IMRT 則建議 (p＞0.05). Conclusion: 的 the light 狀動脈 our dosimetric 量 IMRT may 在 much better 中 and CI 的 conventional tangential-field 前降 In order 量 decrease the 為 area of 小 we had 減少 select an 前降 LAD constraint 分布 this study, 區域 V20 Gy 增加 was used), 分 IMRT planning 區域 done. IMRT 須謹慎評 results in 未來 low dose 更 (V5 Gy) 研究 we should 有 this treatment 理想 carefully. Further 狀動脈 for LAD 量 is needed.
Purpose: 目的 intent of 回溯 study was 的 compare the 為 of the 較 anterior descending 前 artery (LAD) 重要 organs at 在 (OARs) in 患者 breast cancer 乳房 in two 放射 techniques, intensity-modulated 傳統 therapy (IMRT) 治療 3-dimentional conformal 劑量 (3DCRT). Materials 的 Methods: Fourteen 與 with left 研究 cancer who 接受 received post-operative 放射 (RT) to 之 breast between 患者 2012 and 接受 2013 were 相切 in the 治療 All patients 全 irradiated with 相切 or 10-MV 治療 beams using 上 conformal tangential 調控 to the 此 whole breast. 我們 dosimetric comparison, 較 sets of 乳房 IMRT plans, 放射 or without 部分 constraint of 比較 Gy＜50%, on 治療 patient were 強度 These three 放射 plans were 分布 tangential field 差異性 non-LAD constraint 沒有 and LAD 狀動脈 (LC), respectively. 量 patients also 另 supraclavicular fossa 並 irradiation, but 組別間 whole breast 分布 parameters were 為 The conformity 無 (CI), homogeneity 狀動脈 (HI) and 量 histogram (DVH) 和 the LAD, 狀動脈 and ipsilateral 量 were calculated 劑量 analysis. Repeated 的 of one-way 包括 with Bonferroni 劑量 hoc test 左冠 SPSS 21.0) 降支 used for 左側 Results: For 劑量 14 patients 體積 left breast 重 there was 測量 obvious statistical 全 for HI 調控式 12.67%) and 以及 (average 92.95%) 順形 IMRT (both 對 According to 狀動脈 data, it 心臟 found that 肺臟 LAD mean 分布 (Dmean), V20 有 V30 Gy 差異 LAD area 於 dose (LAD 和 10 mm 的 all directions) 計上 reduced by 的 the LC 我們 (average 20.28 時 41.19%, 29.60% 左冠 21.46 Gy, 支劑 if using 條件 technique (all 可以 However, there 平均 no statistical 體積 between TF 百分比 LC arms 在 Additionally, although 加 low dose 平均 (LAD V5 劑量 average 82.81%) ＜ a drawback 但 IMRT (p＜0.05), 放射 LC arm 於 still better 放射 the NLC 會明顯 if the 百分比 constraint was 但 (p=0.013). There 組間則 no statistical 使用 between the 放射 arms in 會 to LAD 平均 dose (Dmax) 左側 average 47.21 接受 3DCRT had 體積 heart Dmean 高 3.77 Gy), 傳統 lung Dmean 治療 7.14 Gy) ＜ V5 Gy 兩個 19.21%) than 顯著 IMRT (average 強度 Gy, 9.31 放射 and 38.57%, 提供 (all p＜0.0001), 劑量 there was 劑量 statistical difference 使用 IMRT arms 則建議 Conclusion: In 的 light of 狀動脈 dosimetric data, 量 may offer 在 better HI 中 CI than 的 tangential-field RT. 前降 order to 量 the high-dose 為 of LAD, 小 had to 減少 an appropriate 前降 constraint (in 分布 study, LAD 區域 Gy ＜50% 增加 used), if 分 planning was 區域 IMRT technique 須謹慎評 in a 未來 dose bath 更 Gy) and 研究 should use 有 treatment option 理想 Further investigation 狀動脈 LAD constraint 量 needed.
目的 We report 一醫學 results of 使用 prostate cancer 螺旋 treated by 非轉 tomotherapy (HT) 攝護 a single 之 Materials and 材料 From December 自 to June 月 eighty-five prostate 年 patients receiving 位 radiation therapy 腺癌 with HT 接受 enrolled in 導引導航 study. Mega-voltage 治療 tomography was 使用 to minimize 導引以 miss and 位誤 error. The 生化 definition was 失敗 to define 定義 failure. Toxicities 分級 recorded based 版本 Common Terminology 中位 for Adverse 期 version 4.0. 個 The median 中位 interval was 劑量 months (range, 為 months). The 病人 radiation dose 為 was 76 群 to the 控制率 prostate. Fifty-four 所有 of patients 風險 in the 病人 category. The 控制 biochemical control 高風險 was 93.3%. 病人 of the 生化 attributed to 其中 low- and 併 groups had 治療 biochemical control 僅分別 For high-risk 及 only 13% 病人 patients had 級 failure, and 腸胃 of them 和 developed bony 副作用 During treatment, 於 4.7% and 級 of the 慢性 experienced grade 發生率 acute gastrointestinal 出血性 genitourinary toxicities, 出血性 No grade 和 or 4 分別 toxicity was 及 The cumulative 對 of late 腺癌 of grade 病人 or above 導航 proctitis, hemorrhagic 刀 and urethral 導引 were 8.2%, 治療 and 4.7%, 我們 Conclusion: For 追 cancer patients, 下 with HT 良好 an excellent 生化 control in 相關 limited follow-up 副作用 The treatment-related 可 were acceptable.
Purpose: 目的 report the 一醫學 of non-metastatic 使用 cancer patients 螺旋 by helical 非轉 (HT) in 攝護 single institution. 之 and Methods: 材料 December 2006 自 June 2013, 月 prostate cancer 年 receiving image-guided 位 therapy (IGRT) 腺癌 HT were 接受 in this 導引導航 Mega-voltage computed 治療 was performed 使用 minimize geographic 導引以 and setup 位誤 The Phoenix 生化 was used 失敗 define biochemical 定義 Toxicities were 分級 based on 版本 Terminology Criteria 中位 Adverse Events, 期 4.0. Results: 個 median follow-up 中位 was 41 劑量 (range, 8-96 為 The median 病人 dose delivered 為 76 Gy 群 the whole 控制率 Fifty-four percent 所有 patients were 風險 the high-risk 病人 The 4-year 控制 control rate 高風險 93.3%. All 病人 the patients 生化 to the 其中 and intermediate-risk 併 had good 治療 control (n=39). 僅分別 high-risk group, 及 13% (6/46) 病人 had biochemical 級 and 2 腸胃 them also 和 bony metastases. 副作用 treatment, only 於 and 9.4% 級 the patients 慢性 grade 2 發生率 gastrointestinal and 出血性 toxicities, respectively. 出血性 grade 3 和 4 acute 分別 was observed. 及 cumulative incidence 對 late toxicities 腺癌 grade 2 病人 above hemorrhagic 導航 hemorrhagic cystitis 刀 urethral stricture 導引 8.2%, 4.7% 治療 4.7%, respectively. 我們 For prostate 追 patients, IGRT 下 HT results 良好 excellent biochemical 生化 in our 相關 follow-up period. 副作用 treatment-related toxicities 可 acceptable.
目的 and Purpose: 修正 develop an 斷層 program to 於 computed tomography 計算此 numbers of 導引 beam CT 此 images and 之 recalculate modified 計算 images by 接受 treatment planning 可行性 (TPS) software 在 evaluate actual 掃描 doses. Material 錐 Methods: Mean 斷層 numbers were 相同 for planning 選區域 and CBCT 數值 the same 脂肪 regions of 藉 tissue, and 定位 Based on － tables for 找出 planning CT, 之 density of 重新 could be 斷層 for a 之數值 volume. After 應表 linear regression 狀射束 for both 之數值 CT-density table 對 the CBCT-density 線性 the CT 方程式 for CBCT 斷層 be modified 依據 fit the 方程式 CT-density table. 電腦 field of 定位 (FOV) boundaries 歸 the corrected 然而 images were 之視 and merged 掃描 the planning 部份 images to 包含 real scatter 狀射束 attenuation data. 電腦 of 2 定位 and 12 狀射束 were used 外 verify the 提供 of corrected 衰減 doses. Results: 使用 on Pinnacle 非均質 calculations, the 十二位 in point 此 between CBCT 後 CT images 電腦 the phantom 於 were 0.71% 重新 at 6 估當 and 0.49% 與 at 10 確性 The 2D 結果 rates for 系統 gamma index 其 97.46% (SD=4.08%) 異 6 MV, 為 99.32% (SD=0.90%) 平面 10 MV. 通過 dose difference 為求 D95% was 形變 The difference 之 planning target 體積 (PTV) coverage 量差 the prescribed 靶 was 0.36%±1.69%, 處方劑 the 2D 異為 rate without 體積 was 98.06%±1.66%. 結果 Patient-specific correction 此 daily CBCT 個別 can be 錐 for reconstructing 斷層 dose distribution 病患 is practicable 接受 radiotherapy treatment 臨床 clinical evaluations.
Background 目的 Purpose: We 修正 an in-house 斷層 to correct 於 tomography (CT) 計算此 of cone 導引 CT (CBCT) 此 and to 之 modified CBCT 計算 by using 接受 planning system 可行性 software to 在 actual patient 掃描 Material and 錐 Mean CT 斷層 were determined 相同 planning CT 選區域 CBCT for 數值 same selected 脂肪 of air, 藉 and bone. 定位 on CT-density － for the 找出 CT, the 之 of CBCT 重新 be determined 斷層 a selected 之數值 After generating 應表 regression equations 狀射束 both the 之數值 table and 對 CBCT-density table, 線性 CT numbers 方程式 CBCT could 斷層 modified to 依據 the planning 方程式 table. The 電腦 of view 定位 boundaries in 歸 corrected CBCT 然而 were identified 之視 merged with 掃描 planning CT 部份 to provide 包含 scatter and 狀射束 data. Images 電腦 2 phantoms 定位 12 patients 狀射束 used to 外 the accuracy 提供 corrected CBCT 衰減 Results: Based 使用 Pinnacle TPS 非均質 the differences 十二位 point dose 此 CBCT and 後 images in 電腦 phantom study 於 0.71% (SD=1.73%) 重新 6 MV, 估當 0.49% (SD=1.39%) 與 10 MV. 確性 2D passing 結果 for a 系統 index were 其 (SD=4.08%) at 異 MV, and 為 (SD=0.90%) at 平面 MV. The 通過 difference of 為求 was 0.48%±1.19%. 形變 difference in 之 target volume 體積 coverage of 量差 prescribed dose 靶 0.36%±1.69%, and 處方劑 2D passing 異為 without threshold 體積 98.06%±1.66%. Conclusion: 結果 correction of 此 CBCT images 個別 be used 錐 reconstructing daily 斷層 distribution and 病患 practicable for 接受 treatment and 臨床 evaluations.
目的 RapidArc is 放射 latest VMAT 旋轉臂 of radiotherapy 同時 varying multi-leaves 葉式 (MLC) shape, 的 rate and 輻射劑 speed simultaneously 以及 gantry rotation. 到 purpose of 放射 study is 本 evaluate the 主要 of dose 刀 setting and 優化時 speed during 設定 optimization, and 時劑 treatment planning 及 plan verify 的 to find 且 the most 對 dose rate 品質 Materials and 的 Thirteen patients 在 three head 相對 neck, five 劑量 and prostate 設定 were selected 本 re-optimize the 性 plan of 患者 by setting 的 different dose 患者 (100, 200, 腺癌 400, 500 患者 600 MU/min). 治療 re-optimized plans 過程 the same 設定 constraint and 六種 for planned 率 volume and 計畫 organ. Compare 在 results of 治療 homogeneity index 過程 and conformal 計畫 (CI) in ; tumor, the 器官 received by 的 organs, monitor 優化 numbers, delivery 影響 and plan 評估 by setting 設定 dose rate. 均 All plans 危急 showed that 的 was no 較 and trend 時間 improved plan 保結果 for clinical 結果 was observed 樣本數 any dose 證據 When setting 治療 dose rate, 不同 maximal speed 的 the main 量 then it 優化 more flexible 機器 modulating gantry 主要 and dose 輸出 and using 機器 arcs in 調節 also did. 大 main advantage 越 setting high 也 rate was 量 total treatment 較 But not 時間 that it 局限 be setting 率 maximum dose 執行 (600 MU/min). 治療 RapidArc plan 雖然 complex and 本身 by amounts 且 cases in 數 study, but 可知 dose rate 有 high dynamic 機器 in gantry 劑量 modulation. No 的 high dose 減少 could reduce 有 treatment time.
Purpose: 目的 is the 放射 VMAT technique 旋轉臂 radiotherapy delivery, 同時 multi-leaves collimator 葉式 shape, dose 的 and gantry 輻射劑 simultaneously during 以及 rotation. The 到 of this 放射 is to 本 the interplay 主要 dose rate 刀 and gantry 優化時 during RapidArc 設定 and analyzing 時劑 planning and 及 verify results 的 find out 且 most suitable 對 rate setting. 品質 and Methods: 的 patients included 在 head and 相對 five esophageal 劑量 prostate patients 設定 selected to 本 the treatment 性 of RapidArc 患者 setting six 的 dose rate 患者 200, 300, 腺癌 500 and 患者 MU/min). All 治療 plans used 過程 same dose 設定 and priority 六種 planned target 率 and critical 計畫 Compare the 在 of the 治療 index (HI) 過程 conformal index 計畫 in the ; the dose 器官 by critical 的 monitor unit 優化 delivery time 影響 plan verified 評估 setting different 設定 rate. Result: 均 plans results 危急 that there 的 no evidence 較 trend toward 時間 plan quality 保結果 clinical case 結果 observed with 樣本數 dose rate. 證據 setting high 治療 rate, gantry 不同 speed was 的 main consideration 量 it was 優化 flexible in 機器 gantry speed 主要 dose rate 輸出 using more 機器 in plan 調節 did. The 大 advantage of 越 high dose 也 was saving 量 treatment time. 較 not mean 時間 it must 局限 setting the 率 dose rate 執行 MU/min). Conclusion: 治療 plan was 雖然 and limited 本身 amounts of 且 in this 數 but high 可知 rate had 有 dynamic range 機器 gantry speed 劑量 No doubt 的 dose rate 減少 reduce total 有 time.
目的 Electronic medical 電子化 (EMR) have 必然 indispensable. However, 但 medical records 腫瘤 for radiation 的 in Taiwan 大多 independent from 於 information systems 之外 or asynchronous 與 HIS. It 統未 difficult to 存在 information on 團隊 oncology for 取得 members of 專科 treatment team. 問題 the aim 本 this study 為 to build 與 EMR system, 放腫癌 integrates with 庫 HIS and 放腫 cancer registry 病歷 to achieve 電子 safe, instant 兼顧 of information. 的 & Methods: 效率 needs of 安全性 oncology medical 材料 the existing 方法 and the 專科病 of the 需求 registry system 流程 identified first. 登作業 applying Java 在 web technology 與 J2EE architecture, 技術 developed an 腫瘤 medical records 病 Considering the 放腫科 of information 病歷 and the 儲存 for future 特性 analysis, we 分析 the information 料定 the notes 不同 different forms. 並以 built a 工程 version of 原有 cancer registry 版癌 integrated with 建 using the 為 of reverse 醫療 The data 整合 the previous 資料 registry system 並轉換 imported and 新系統 to be 到 with the 上 system to 與 the goal 時 online operation 目標 real-time search. 完成 The electronic 電子 records system 包括 initial notes, 病歷 radiation morbidity 副作用 brachytherapy notes, 近接 notes, and 放射 cancer registry 摘要 By integrating 放腫癌 the HIS 庫 sharing the 及 we can 共享 the time 減少 possible mistakes 醫師書 spend on 與 records and 輸入 inputing. The 的 transparency for 對 members of 癌症 cancer treatment 的 are improved 即 the system 透明性 well. Conclusions: 本 electronic medical 的 designed by 電子 study not 除 reduce documentation 專科病 but also 寫 a database 建立 complete patient 完整 and other 他 information for 資訊 study or 庫 trial. It 未來 also more 因應 in response 病歷 changes in 改變 records policy.
Purpose: 目的 medical records 電子化 have become 必然 However, most 但 records systems 腫瘤 radiation oncology 的 Taiwan are 大多 from hospital 於 systems (HIS), 之外 asynchronous with 與 It is 統未 to gather 存在 on radiation 團隊 for other 取得 of cancer 專科 team. Therefore, 問題 aim of 本 study is 為 build an 與 system, which 放腫癌 with both 庫 and the 放腫 registry database, 病歷 achieve efficient, 電子 instant transfer 兼顧 information. Materials 的 Methods: The 效率 of radiation 安全性 medical records, 材料 existing processes, 方法 the functions 專科病 the cancer 需求 system were 流程 first. By 登作業 Java and 在 technology under 與 architecture, we 技術 an electronic 腫瘤 records system. 病 the characteristics 放腫科 information storage 病歷 the need 儲存 future statistical 特性 we defined 分析 information in 料定 notes as 不同 forms. We 並以 a web-based 工程 of the 原有 registry system 版癌 with HIS, 建 the concept 為 reverse engineering. 醫療 data from 整合 previous cancer 資料 system was 並轉換 and converted 新系統 be compatible 到 the new 上 to achieve 與 goal of 時 operation and 目標 search. Results: 完成 electronic medical 電子 system included 包括 notes, acute 病歷 morbidity records, 副作用 notes, complete 近接 and a 放射 registry database. 摘要 integrating with 放腫癌 HIS and 庫 the information, 及 can reduce 共享 time and 減少 mistakes clinicians 醫師書 on medical 與 and repeated 輸入 The instant 的 for other 對 of the 癌症 treatment team 的 improved by 即 system as 透明性 Conclusions: The 本 medical records 的 by this 電子 not only 除 documentation time, 專科病 also build 寫 database containing 建立 patient history 完整 other cancer 他 for retrospective 資訊 or clinical 庫 It is 未來 more flexible 因應 response to 病歷 in medical 改變 policy.
前言 Hemangioma is 是 most common 良性 liver tumor, 大多 mostly asymptomatic. 狀 symptomatic hemangioma, 於 resection is 症狀 most common 手術 In unresectable 常見 one of 方式 alternative managements 於 radiotherapy, a 切除 uncommon choice 血管瘤 to transcatheter 治療 embolization. We 經動脈 our experience 卻 four cases 的 liver hemangioma 我們 with fractionated 報告 and reviewed 病例 literatures. Case 線 A total 血管瘤 four female 獻 aged between 報告 to 61 回溯 were retrospectively 四位 They presented 皆 symptoms of 年齡 upper quadrant 歲 and abdominal 都 One patient 上腹 recurrent liver 腹脹 years after 一位 resection. The 手術後數 three received 復 arterial embolization 其餘 hemangioma with 經導管 improvement in 術後症 All patients 改善 radiotherapy with 為 total dose 分別 50-59.4 Gy 次 20-33 fractions 週 a 4-7 的 period. At 中 latest follow-up, 病人 regression rate 狀 these liver 血管瘤 was 80.8% 小 98.0% without 到 adverse effects 相關 the patients 放射 symptom-free. Conclusions: 可用 is a 隨著 treatment for 肝臟 liver hemangioma 治療 good outcome.
Background: 前言 is the 是 common benign 良性 tumor, and 大多 asymptomatic. For 狀 hemangioma, surgical 於 is the 症狀 common treatment. 手術 unresectable hemangiomas, 常見 of the 方式 managements is 於 a relatively 切除 choice compared 血管瘤 transcatheter arterial 治療 We present 經動脈 experience of 卻 cases of 的 hemangioma treated 我們 fractionated radiotherapy 報告 reviewed the 病例 Case Presentation: 線 total of 血管瘤 female patients, 獻 between 50 報告 61 years, 回溯 retrospectively analyzed. 四位 presented with 皆 of right 年齡 quadrant pain 歲 abdominal fullness. 都 patient had 上腹 liver hemangioma 腹脹 after liver 一位 The other 手術後數 received transcatheter 復 embolization to 其餘 with limited 經導管 in symptoms. 術後症 patients received 改善 with a 為 dose of 分別 Gy in 次 fractions over 週 4-7 week 的 At the 中 follow-up, the 病人 rate for 狀 liver hemangiomas 血管瘤 80.8% to 小 without radiation-associated 到 effects and 相關 patients remained 放射 Conclusions: Radiotherapy 可用 a feasible 隨著 for symptomatic 肝臟 hemangioma with 治療 outcome.
乳癌 report a 女 Taiwanese woman 癌症 recurrent skin 擴散 who presented 肺臟 extensive forebreast, 皮膚 abdominal skin 卻 approximately 17 的 after initial 將報 radiotherapy. The 女性 was treated 結束 Helical Tomo-Therapy 後 a total 隨即 of 50 膚 given in 案例 Gy per 化學 per day. 後 metastases in 螺旋 case showed 性 partial response 治療 radiotherapy, and 獲得 metastatic lesions 反應且 during the 副作用 Radiotherapy might 放射 considered as 作為 palliative treatment 患病 for the 治療 metastasis of 對 cancer. The 實質 course of 間 case is 權衡 and previous 案例 are reviewed 加以 this article.
We 乳癌 a 42-year-old 女 woman with 癌症 skin metastasis 擴散 presented with 肺臟 forebreast, and 皮膚 skin metastasis 卻 17 months 的 initial adjuvant 將報 The patient 女性 treated with 結束 Tomo-Therapy at 後 total dose 隨即 50 Gy 膚 in 2 案例 per fraction 化學 day. Skin 後 in this 螺旋 showed only 性 response to 治療 and new 獲得 lesions developed 反應且 the treatment. 副作用 might be 放射 as a 作為 treatment option 患病 the skin 治療 of breast 對 The treatment 實質 of this 間 is described 權衡 previous reports 案例 reviewed in 加以 article.
目的 To investigate 學 potential value 唾液腺 concurrent chemotherapy 手術 patients with 線 gland carcinomas 材料 with postoperative 此篇 (PORT). Materials 研究 Methods: This 年 review included 於 consecutive patients 之 major and 癌 salivary gland 入案 from 2001 接受 2011. All 與術 treated with 治療 surgery followed 位 PORT (n=93) 手術 postoperative chemoradiotherapy 放化療 (n=74). The 之放療 cumulative radiation 劑量 were 66 而 for both 化療 and cisplatin-based 使用 chemotherapies were 療藥物 most commonly 蹤 regimens. Results: 中 median follow-up 為 5.4 years 同步 survivors. Although 病患 receiving POCRT 病理 more adverse 與 prognosticators and 之 cancer stages, 然而 were no 早期 differences in 兩組 control (LRC), 腫瘤 survival (DFS), 疾病 overall survival 總 between the 無統 and POCRT 差異 according to 於 or advanced 狀癌 However, a 接受 towards LRC 同步 was observed 五年 patients with 控制率 cystic carcinoma 純放療 undergoing POCRT, 統計 100% 5-year 之 compared with 次 for those 中 with PORT 腺樣 In subgroup 癌合 POCRT provided 緣陽性 LRC advantages 侵犯 PORT for 病患 patients who 同步 exhibited positive 提升 margins (P=.022) 控制率 perineural invasion 族群 The predominant 的 of failure 發 the entire 遠端 was distant 術後放療 Conclusions: Adding 療 chemotherapy to 改善 radiotherapy might 狀癌 most beneficial 併 terms of 或 for salivary 局部 ACC patients 在 positive surgical 治療 or perineural 仍 Distant metastasis 癌 problematic despite 最大 intervention.
Purpose: 目的 investigate the 學 value of 唾液腺 chemotherapy in 手術 with salivary 線 carcinomas treated 材料 postoperative radiotherapy 此篇 Materials and 研究 This retrospective 年 included 167 於 patients with 之 and minor 癌 gland carcinomas 入案 2001 to 接受 All were 與術 with curative 治療 followed by 位 (n=93) or 手術 chemoradiotherapy (POCRT) 放化療 The median 之放療 radiation doses 劑量 66 Gy 而 both groups, 化療 cisplatin-based concurrent 使用 were the 療藥物 commonly used 蹤 Results: The 中 follow-up was 為 years for 同步 Although patients 病患 POCRT possessed 病理 adverse pathological 與 and higher 之 stages, there 然而 no statistical 早期 in locoregional 兩組 (LRC), diseasefree 腫瘤 (DFS), and 疾病 survival (OS) 總 the PORT 無統 POCRT groups 差異 to early 於 advanced stage. 狀癌 a trend 接受 LRC improvement 同步 observed in 五年 with adenoid 控制率 carcinoma (ACC) 純放療 POCRT, with 統計 5-year LRC 之 with 81% 次 those treated 中 PORT (P=.057). 腺樣 subgroup analyses, 癌合 provided significant 緣陽性 advantages over 侵犯 for ACC 病患 who also 同步 positive surgical 提升 (P=.022) or 控制率 invasion (P=.043). 族群 predominant pattern 的 failure for 發 entire cohort 遠端 distant metastasis. 術後放療 Adding concurrent 療 to postoperative 改善 might be 狀癌 beneficial in 併 of LRC 或 salivary gland 局部 patients with 在 surgical margins 治療 perineural invasion. 仍 metastasis remains 癌 despite multimodal 最大
目的 To evaluate 神經瘤 control, hearing 接受 and complication 定位 after frameless 治療 stereotactic radiosurgery 腫瘤 in patients 及 acoustic neuromas 與 Methods: Fifty-seven 分析 with 63 到 treated with 位 at Chi-Mei 總共 Center from 接受 to 2012 定位 retrospectively analyzed. 治療 radiation dose 紀錄 from 18 各別 to 30 分成 in 3 次療程 5 fractions. 顯影 evaluate local 追 rate, we 估 brain MRI 局部 contrast enhancement 利用 regular intervals. 聽 ability was 亦 assessed using 時 Gardner-Robertson scale. 主觀 subjective change 聽力 hearing was 的 at regular 經過 follow-ups. Results: 月 a median 時 of 29.1 及 (range 3.6-54.1), 控制率 local control 及 was 94.8% 病患 2 years 保有 89.3% after 且 years. Of 定期 13 patients 測驗 serviceable hearing 個 with audiograms, 其 hearing preservation 治療 was 88.2% 保留 a median 病患 of 30.8 位 Among the 發生 treated patients, 的 developed complications 及頭 grade 3 需 4 hydrocephalus, 或 edema, and 與 that needed 聽 or surgical 手術 after treatment. 線 Frameless fractionated 伽 treatment of 為 demonstrates good 放射 for tumor 的 hearing preservation 使用 and acceptable 立體 of radiation 手術 toxicity as 可以 to literature 的 study series 及 surgery, conventional 率 radiotherapy, and 相關 based stereotactic 亦 yet longer 接受 will be needed.
Objective: 目的 evaluate tumor 神經瘤 hearing preservation, 接受 complication rates 定位 frameless fractionated 治療 radiosurgery (FSRS) 腫瘤 patients with 及 neuromas (ANs). 與 Fifty-seven patients 分析 63 ANs 到 with FSRS 位 Chi-Mei Medical 總共 from 2009 接受 2012 were 定位 analyzed. The 治療 dose ranged 紀錄 18 Gy 各別 30 Gy 分成 3 to 次療程 fractions. To 顯影 local control 追 we arranged 估 MRI with 局部 enhancement at 利用 intervals. Hearing 聽 was also 亦 using the 時 scale. Additionally, 主觀 change of 聽力 was rated 的 regular OPD 經過 Results: With 月 median follow-up 時 29.1 months 及 3.6-54.1), actuarial 控制率 control rate 及 94.8% after 病患 years and 保有 after 3 且 Of the 定期 patients with 測驗 hearing and 個 audiograms, the 其 preservation rate 治療 88.2% at 保留 median follow-up 病患 30.8 months. 位 the 57 發生 patients, 6 的 complications including 及頭 3 to 需 hydrocephalus, perifocal 或 and headache 與 needed medical 聽 surgical intervention 手術 treatment. Conclusion: 線 fractionated SRS 伽 of AN 為 good results 放射 tumor control, 的 preservation rate, 使用 acceptable rates 立體 radiation related 手術 as compared 可以 literature on 的 series on 及 conventional stereotactic 率 and Gamma-knife 相關 stereotactic radiosurgery, 亦 longer follow-up 接受 be needed.
目的 Surgery remains 膽道 primary treatment 的 cholangiocarcinoma, with 手術 chemoradiation (CCRT) 主 for adjuvant 放療 or as 則用 treatment for 術 disease. However, 輔助性 experience has 或 limited to 手術 chemoradiation. A 病灶 analysis of 病患 based CCRT 記載 primary treatment 同步化 loco-regional cholangiocarcinoma 仍 our institute 為主 performed. Materials 治療 Methods: Between 著 2004 and 本文 2012, 26 於 (M/F=17/9; median 接受 with cholangiocarcinoma 放療 intrahepatic primary 進行 12 perihilar 性 extrahepatic primary) 及 treated with 從 intent at 至 department. Baseline 月 status based 位新 Eastern Cooperative 病患 Group (ECOG) ／ 0-1 in 年齡 patients and 位數 in 4 本院 Nine had 以 extension of 的 diseases (defined 放療 metastasis in 位 regional or 狀態 lymph nodes), 位為 17 had 淋巴 (T1-4N0M0) disease. 位 median equivalent 淋巴 in 2 使用 (EQD2) was 為 Gy (range: 或 Gy). Concurrent 放射 was low 量 gemcitabine at － mg/m2 given 變項 to biweekly. 變項 univariateand multivariate 找出 were used 的 identify statistically 因子 prognostic factors. 所有 The median 平均 of the 為 cohort was 一年 months. Survival 存活率 at 1 為 2 year 單變項 53% and 中 respectively. Patients 狀態 better performance 較 (ECOG 0-1) 之 improved median 顯著 in comparison 月 those who 年齡 poorer baseline 歲 status (ECOG 對 (16.9 months 有 1.5 months, 影響 on univariate 顯著 Younger age 差異 66 years) . towards improved 腫瘤區 survival (28.0 發者 vs. 4.8 其中 p=0.055). There 為 eight local 腫瘤 two of 因 were isolated 副作用 failures. There 兩位 two treatment-related 以 Conclusions: Outcome 管癌 low dose 同步化 CCRT for 是 seems promising. 治療 with better 可 performance status 手術 most likely 的 benefit from 治療 treatment. Definitive 狀態 based CCRT 的 loco-regional cholangiocarcinoma 治療 be an 較長 to primary surgery.
Purpose: 目的 remains the 膽道 treatment of 的 with concurrent 手術 (CCRT) reserved 主 adjuvant treatment 放療 as primary 則用 for unresectable 術 However, the 輔助性 has been 或 to flourauracilbased 手術 A retrospective 病灶 of gemcitabine 病患 CCRT as 記載 treatment for 同步化 cholangiocarcinoma in 仍 institute was 為主 Materials and 治療 Between April, 著 and December, 本文 26 patients 於 median age=66years) 接受 cholangiocarcinoma (14 放療 primary and 進行 perihilar or 性 primary) were 及 with curative 從 at our 至 Baseline performance 月 based on 位新 Cooperative Oncology 病患 (ECOG) was ／ in 22 年齡 and 2 位數 4 patients. 本院 had regional 以 of the 的 (defined as 放療 in either 位 or para-aortic 狀態 nodes), whereas 位為 had localized 淋巴 disease. The 位 equivalent dose 淋巴 2 Gy 使用 was 52.0 為 (range: 40-72.1 或 Concurrent chemotherapy 放射 low dose 量 at 400 － given weekly 變項 biweekly. Both 變項 multivariate analyses 找出 used to 的 statistically significant 因子 factors. Results: 所有 median survival 平均 the entire 為 was 13.2 一年 Survival rates 存活率 1 and 為 year were 單變項 and 8% 中 Patients of 狀態 performance status 較 0-1) had 之 median survival 顯著 comparison to 月 who of 年齡 baseline performance 歲 (ECOG 2) 對 months vs. 有 months, p=0.045) 影響 univariate analysis. 顯著 age (＜ 差異 years) trended . improved median 腫瘤區 (28.0 months 發者 4.8 months, 其中 There was 為 local failures, 腫瘤 of which 因 isolated local 副作用 There were 兩位 treatment-related deaths. 以 Outcome of 管癌 dose gemcitabine 同步化 for cholangiocarcinoma 是 promising. Those 治療 better baseline 可 status are 手術 likely to 的 from this 治療 Definitive gemcitabine 狀態 CCRT for 的 cholangiocarcinoma may 治療 an alternative 較長 primary surgery.
本文 review provided 簡介 concise introduction 兩種 applying health 類型 research/ comparative 研究 analysis in 與 oncology in 特別 Research methodology 資料 introduced and 分析 experiences were 個 especially focused 心得 database analysis. 經驗 some suggestions 的 reading and 若干 in this 與 were provided.
This 本文 provided a 簡介 introduction regarding 兩種 health services 類型 comparative effectiveness 研究 in radiation 與 in Taiwan. 特別 methodology was 資料 and personal 分析 were provided, 個 focused on 心得 analysis. Finally, 經驗 suggestions regarding 的 and research 若干 this field 與 provided.
目的 Follow recommendation 醫學 AAPM report 第 applying EBT3 利用 to process 執行 quality assurance 的 Varian Millennium 保證 multileaf collimator. 與 and Methods: 第三代 study was 收集 the specific 的 for MLC 保證 assurance and 影像 the images 分析 EBT3 film. 差值 commercial software 其多葉 be analyzing 保基 images scanned 保證 EBT3 film 包括 creating reference 保證 The monthly 光照 items was 照野 setting versus 備用準 field for 葉片 patterns、travel speed 葉片 leaf position 每年 The items 項目 annual QA 輻射 consisted of 度 transmission for 中心 energies, leaf 位置 repeatability, MLC 及 shot, coincidence 本 light field 多葉 x-ray field 保 IMRT testing 對 segment and 自顯 window. The 步驟 was described 與 for the 品保 procedure, method 提供 exposed film 建議 specific testing 多葉 Results: The 保結果 of quality 美國 for Varian 學會 120-Leaf were 的 with criteria 只限 were recorded 直線 AAPM report 多葉準 The QA 多葉 values were 保測 available for 能 specific MLC 驗收時 this linear 相吻合 The paper 適當 presenting the 與 procedure of 底片 Millennium 120-Leaf 多 using EBT3 的 and appropriate 保證 Discussions: Several 項目 QA reference 葉片 could be 點測 with record 直線 customer acceptance 保證 document. Due 準直 MLC was 點測試 lower level 由 collimator but 多 same gantry 與 The result 於 MLC spoke 但 could be 層 with collimator 葉片 shot. The 會 of leaf 的 must be 機頭 with gantry 變化 causing gravity.
Purpose: 目的 recommendation of 醫學 report no.142; 第 EBT3 film 利用 process routine 執行 assurance for 的 Millennium 120-Leaf 保證 collimator. Materials 與 Methods: The 第三代 was designed 收集 specific pattern 的 MLC quality 保證 and acquired 影像 images by 分析 film. The 差值 software can 其多葉 analyzing the 保基 scanned from 保證 film and 包括 reference values. 保證 monthly QA 光照 was included 照野 versus radiation 備用準 for two 葉片 speed and 葉片 position accuracy. 每年 items for 項目 QA was 輻射 of MLC 度 for all 中心 leaf position 位置 MLC spoke 及 coincidence of 本 field and 多葉 field and 保 testing for 對 and sliding 自顯 The paper 步驟 described particularly 與 the QA 品保 method of 提供 film and 建議 testing pattern. 多葉 The results 保結果 quality assurance 美國 Varian Millennium 學會 were satisfied 的 criteria which 只限 recorded on 直線 report no.142. 多葉準 QA reference 多葉 were only 保測 for this 能 MLC on 驗收時 linear accelerator. 相吻合 paper is 適當 the QA 與 of Varian 底片 120-Leaf MLC 多 EBT3 film 的 appropriate software. 保證 Several MLC 項目 reference values 葉片 be consist 點測 record on 直線 acceptance procedure 保證 Due to 準直 was installed 點測試 level than 由 but on 多 gantry head. 與 result of 於 spoke shot 但 be same 層 collimator spoke 葉片 The accuracy 會 leaf position 的 be varying 機頭 gantry angle 變化 gravity.
目的 This reasearch 主要 focused on 假體 measured surface 病人 of the 治療 phantom for 表面 cancer patients 評估 with field-in-field 病人 and irregular 測 compensator (ISC) 的 the reliable 材料 tools to 本實驗 the skin 薄片 of breast 光劑 patients. Materials 以及 Methods: This 變色 adopted 0.1mm 做 thermoluminescent dosimeters 量測 TLD) and 對 Gafchromic EBT 特性 as the 研究 tool to 假體 the characteristics. 測量 doses of 乳房 breast on 表面 Rando phantom 利用 measured. FIF 計畫系 ISC plans 製 a prescribed 野中 of 180 野 were designed 不 this phantom 補償器 an Eclipse 兩種 planning system 治療 using two 方法 tools to 做劑 the absolute 量 dose. Result: 結果 this experiment 之 variance coefficient 變異 TLD film 數在 within 3%. 值 reading values 給予 delivered doses 間 in a 線性關 linear relationship. 輻射 points on 校正 curve of 上 film were 之 1% and 數在 a stable 整體 Mean surface 呈現 doses of 的關 and ISC 和 the EBT 薄片 and TLD 兩種 were 108.74 測量 14.86 cGy, 表面 ± 15.93 平均值 and 103.19 和 12.91 cGy, 薄片 ± 10.02 量測 respectively. The 在 between EBT 照射 and TLD 自 for the 乳房 middle, outer, 外側 lower regions 下側 home-made breast 全部 the total 差分 dose of 和 was 5.17%, 型 1.58%, 1.27%, 量測 and 1.3%, 在 the error 方式 EBT film 自 TLD film 乳房 the inner, 外側 outer, upper, 下側 regions of 的 breast and 差分 total mean 和 of ISC 討論 1.86%, 2.94%, 實驗 -3.44%, -5% 型 1.08%, respectively. 光劑 and Discussion: 以及 the experimental 軟片適 ultrathin TLD 來作 EBT film 病人 be adopted 劑量 the measured 量測 for surface 本 of breast 將統 patients. The 人體 work for 皮膚 research could 實際 statistics of 劑量 skin reactions 測量 affected by 準確 skin dose 皮膚 from radiation 並評 clinical applications. 不同 evaluate severity 反應 skin reaction 皮膚 measure most 確實 skin dose, 造成 this data 反應 be used 劑量 for skin reaction gradings.
Purpose: 目的 reasearch was 主要 on the 假體 surface dose 病人 the simulated 治療 for breast 表面 patients treated 評估 field-in-field (FIF) 病人 irregular surface 測 (ISC) and 的 reliable measured 材料 to evaluate 本實驗 skin dose 薄片 breast cancer 光劑 Materials and 以及 This experiment 變色 0.1mm ultrathin 做 dosimeters (ultrathin 量測 and ISP 對 EBT film 特性 the measured 研究 to establish 假體 characteristics. Superficial 測量 of home-made 乳房 on anthropomorphic 表面 phantom were 利用 FIF and 計畫系 plans with 製 prescribed dose 野中 180 cGy 野 designed on 不 phantom using 補償器 Eclipse treatment 兩種 system and 治療 two measured 方法 to measure 做劑 absolute surface 量 Result: In 結果 experiment the 之 coefficient of 變異 film was 數在 3%. The 值 values and 給予 doses were 間 a good 線性關 relationship. The 輻射 on calibration 校正 of Gafchromic 上 were within 之 and in 數在 stable performance. 整體 surface measured 呈現 of FIF 的關 ISC with 和 EBT film 薄片 TLD film 兩種 108.74 ± 測量 cGy, 107.35 表面 15.93 cGy 平均值 103.19 ± 和 cGy, 102.09 薄片 10.02 cGy, 量測 The error 在 EBT film 照射 TLD film 自 the inner, 乳房 outer, upper, 外側 regions of 下側 breast and 全部 total mean 差分 of FIF 和 5.17%, -3.45%, 型 1.27%, -0.55% 量測 1.3%, respectively; 在 error between 方式 film and 自 film for 乳房 inner, middle, 外側 upper, lower 下側 of home-made 的 and the 差分 mean dose 和 ISC was 討論 2.94%, 8.3%, 實驗 -5% and 型 respectively. Conclusion 光劑 Discussion: From 以及 experimental results, 軟片適 TLD and 來作 film can 病人 adopted as 劑量 measured tools 量測 surface dose 本 breast cancer 將統 The future 人體 for this 皮膚 could gather 實際 of the 劑量 reactions indeed 測量 by the 準確 dose received 皮膚 radiation for 並評 applications. To 不同 severity of 反應 reaction and 皮膚 most accurate 確實 dose, and 造成 data can 反應 used references 劑量 skin reaction gradings.
此份 report a 為 female who 罹患 metastatic adenocarcinoma 惡性 the breast 局部 mimicked a 的 breast cancer 影像 regional lymph 組織 metastases. The 後 presentation and 原發性 findings were 切除 to primary 對 ductal carcinoma 以往 the breast. 後 hypothesize that 腺癌 origin was 說 of the 於 which metastasized 性癌 the breast 移至 then seeded 轉 the ipsilateral 淋巴 nodes.
We 此份 a 50-year-old 為 who had 罹患 adenocarcinoma of 惡性 breast which 局部 a primary 的 cancer with 影像 lymph nodes 組織 The clinical 後 and histologic 原發性 were similar 切除 primary invasive 對 carcinoma of 以往 breast. We 後 that the 腺癌 was adenocarcinoma 說 the rectum 於 metastasized to 性癌 breast and 移至 seeded in 轉 ipsilateral axillary 淋巴
疣 carcinoma (VC) 是 a well 分化 squamous cell 細胞癌 that is 一種 low-grade malignancy 遠端 rarely presents 低度 distant metastasis. 根據過 to previously 的 cases, it 它 possible that 可能 presence of 結石 may cause 造成 inflammation and 發炎 irritation; this 傷性 seems to 這樣 the development 促進 VC in 疣 upper part 發展 urinary tract. 此 present a 發生 of verrucous 腎 of the 輸尿管 renal pelvis 狀癌 right ureter. 腫瘤 tumors may 嚴重 severe urinary 阻塞 obstruction. Surgical 是 is the 模式 modality of 接受 This patient 輸尿管 nephro-ureterectomy. Furthermore, 此外 a microscopic 顯微 tumor was 殘留 at the 輸尿管 end of 該 the patient 接受 received adjuvant 放射
Verrucous 疣 (VC) is 是 well differentiated 分化 cell carcinoma 細胞癌 is a 一種 malignancy and 遠端 presents with 低度 metastasis. According 根據過 previously reported 的 it is 它 that the 可能 of calculi 結石 cause chronic 造成 and traumatic 發炎 this mechanism 傷性 to promote 這樣 development of 促進 in the 疣 part of 發展 tract. We 此 a case 發生 verrucous carcinoma 腎 the right 輸尿管 pelvis and 狀癌 ureter. Such 腫瘤 may cause 嚴重 urinary tract 阻塞 Surgical treatment 是 the main 模式 of therapy. 接受 patient received 輸尿管 Furthermore, because 此外 microscopic residual 顯微 was found 殘留 the cut 輸尿管 of ureter, 該 patient also 接受 adjuvant radiotherapy.
放射 stenosis after 治療 has been 狹窄 as a 是 of external 體外 to the 線 and neck 罕見 from treatment 患者 cancer. However, 各種 is seldom 如短 We report 發作 a 33-year-old 或 diagnosed with 在 cancer (NPC) 併 He had 出現 concurrent chemo-radiotherapy 尚未 with Cetuximab 我們 and curative 一位 (RT) with 男子 dose of 第一期 in 33 放射 He developed 併 myoclonic jerk 治療 the left 半 2.5 years 肌陣攣 CCRT. Magnetic 造影 angiography (MRA) 有 roughly 60% 內頸動脈 of the 狹窄 proximal internal 接受 artery. He 針對 not receive 的 invasive intervention 治療 carotid stenosis 左頸部 the neck 在 was well 局部 by an 注射 local Botox 皆 for 3 控制
Carotid 放射 after radiotherapy 治療 been recognized 狹窄 a complication 是 external irradiation 體外 the head 線 neck resulting 罕見 treatment for 患者 However, myoclonus 各種 seldom found. 如短 report on 發作 33-year-old man 或 with nasopharyngeal 在 (NPC) cT1N1M0. 併 had undergone 出現 chemo-radiotherapy (CCRT) 尚未 Cetuximab (Erbitux) 我們 curative radiotherapy 一位 with a 男子 of 7000cGy 第一期 33 fractions. 放射 developed a 併 jerk in 治療 left neck 半 years after 肌陣攣 Magnetic resonance 造影 (MRA) revealed 有 60% stenosis 內頸動脈 the left 狹窄 internal carotid 接受 He did 針對 receive any 的 intervention for 治療 stenosis and 左頸部 neck myoclonus 在 well controlled 局部 an annual 注射 Botox injection 皆 3 years.
目的 To analyze 乳房 treatment outcomes 後 radiation therapy 發 in breast 病患 patients who 治療 locoregional recurrence 治療 after initial 討影響 with mastectomy, 預 to investigate 材料 prognostic factors 我們 survival. Materials 至 Methods: We 因 reviewed medical 術 of breast 復 patients who 接受 RT for 的 LRR in 之病歷 hospital from 過去 to 2009. 放射 who had 局部 RT and 已有 metastasis before 但 were excluded, 遠處 patients with 的 distant metastasis 本 included in 分析 study. Clinicopathologic 與 and outcomes 之 analyzed. Kaplan-Meier 預 was used 使用 estimate local 來 progression-free survival 復 distant metastasis 無遠處 survival (DMFS) 和 overall survival 存活率 Cox proportional 比例 models were 來 to assess 臨床 prognostic significance 的 these clinicopathologic 位 on survival. 被 One hundred 研究 fifty-five patients 時 included in 位 study. Median 年 time was 在 years. Thirty-one 復 patients had 有 metastasis at 轉移 diagnosis of 患者 while 124 局部 patients had 無遠處 The median 有 for patients 轉移 and without 無遠處 metastasis were 的 and 4.2 為 respectively (P= 年間 but there 組間 no difference 對 LRPFS between 轉移 two groups 年 0.33). Among 分別 124 patients 和 synchronous metastasis, 位 5-year LRPFS, 癌症 and OS 胸壁 were 58.9%, 的 and 46%, 顯著 Eighty-three patients 好 subsequently developed 比 metastases. Patients 復 chest wall 多個 had a 發者 better 5-year 存活率 than patients . isolated LN 這群 multiple sites 的 (56.3% vs. 變數 vs. 27.8%, 局部 0.04). Multivariate 發 for patients 和 synchronous metastasis 最初 that sites 影響 LRR and 後 stage were 積極 prognostic factors 局部 LRPFS, while 手術 local therapy 治療 surgery and 最初 initial stage 挽救 salvage systemic 治療 were significant 影響 factors affecting 後 Conclusions: Locoregional 局部 breast cancer 乳癌 a high 遠處 of distant 的 Use of 治療 local therapy 治療 systemic therapy 部份 achieve good 患者 outcomes in 期 substantial proportion of patients.
Purpose: 目的 analyze the 乳房 outcomes of 後 therapy (RT) 發 breast cancer 病患 who developed 治療 recurrence (LRR) 治療 initial treatment 討影響 mastectomy, and 預 investigate the 材料 factors influencing 我們 Materials and 至 We retrospectively 因 medical records 術 breast cancer 復 who received 接受 for post-mastectomy 的 in our 之病歷 from 1989 過去 2009. Patients 放射 had previous 局部 and distant 已有 before LRR 但 excluded, but 遠處 with synchronous 的 metastasis were 本 in this 分析 Clinicopathologic parameters 與 outcomes were 之 Kaplan-Meier method 預 used to 使用 local recurrence 來 survival (LRPFS), 復 metastasis -free 無遠處 (DMFS) and 和 survival (OS). 存活率 proportional hazards 比例 were utilized 來 assess the 臨床 significance of 的 clinicopathologic parameters 位 survival. Results: 被 hundred and 研究 patients were 時 in the 位 Median followup 年 was 9.8 在 Thirty-one (20.0%) 復 had synchronous 有 at the 轉移 of LRR, 患者 124 (80%) 局部 had not. 無遠處 median OS 有 patients with 轉移 without synchronous 無遠處 were 1.6 的 4.2 years, 為 (P= 0.001), 年間 there was 組間 difference on 對 between these 轉移 groups (P= 年 Among the 分別 patients without 和 metastasis, the 位 LRPFS, DMFS 癌症 OS for 胸壁 58.9%, 35.4% 的 46%, respectively. 顯著 patients (67%) 好 developed distant 比 Patients with 復 wall recurrence 多個 a significantly 發者 5-year OS 存活率 patients with . LN or 這群 sites recurrences 的 vs. 39.8% 變數 27.8%, P= 局部 Multivariate analysis 發 patients without 和 metastasis revealed 最初 sites of 影響 and initial 後 were significant 積極 factors for 局部 while aggressive 手術 therapy (including 治療 and RT), 最初 stage and 挽救 systemic therapy 治療 significant prognostic 影響 affecting OS. 後 Locoregional recurrent 局部 cancer carries 乳癌 high risk 遠處 distant metastasis. 的 of aggressive 治療 therapy and 治療 therapy can 部份 good survival 患者 in a 期 proportion of patients.
目的 The aim 性 this retrospective 左側 is to 病人 dose irradiated 保留 the heart 後 the left 治療 descending coronary 左冠 (LADCA) in 前 breast cancer 的 treated with 及 breast radiotherapy 降低 analyse the 照射 causes of 的 dose to 與 heart and 本 Methods and 篩選 Twenty-one consecutive 放射 with left-sided 之 cancer who 乳癌 adjuvant radiotherapy 名 the breast 乳房 August 2012 照野 October 2013 名 enrolled in 乳房 study. All 照野 were irradiated 治療 6- or 上 tangential beams 強度 the breast 放射 seven patients 病人 them also 心臟 supraclavicular fossa 左冠 irradiation with 降支 technique. For 接受 dose plan, 都 histograms (DVHs) 量 the heart 圖 LADCA were 分析 and analyzed. 積差 correlation coefficient 數評 calculated to 和 the relationship 脈 average heart 接受 (mean dose), 的 D_(mean) and 以 (maximum dose) 上 between LAD 強度 and volume 放射 LADCA in 治療 radiation fields 於 it received 和 Gy). Student's 脈 test was 接受 to assess 是否 statistical significance 顯著 differences in 結果 dose to 患者 and heart 心臟 patients who 接受 SCF IMRT 範圍 not. Results: 左冠 the 21 前 given left 平均 irradiation, the 劑量 mean [range] 範圍 was 4.04 最大 Gy to 劑量 heart and 範圍 [6.99-35.28] Gy 平均 the LADCA, 劑量 the average 左冠 dose was 前 [50.55-58.42] Gy 劑量 the LADCA. 高度 is significant 關聯性 between D_(mean) 狀動脈 the heart 降支 LADCA (r= 劑量 p ＜ 照野內 The D_(mean) 體積 LADCA was 高度 to increase 有 Gy for 患者 increase of 接受 Gy in 相切 mean radiation 治療 delivered to 骨 heart in 窩 study. There 放射 significant correlation 心臟 Dmean to 接受 and the 範圍 of LAD 左冠 the radiation 前 (i.e., it 的 ＞25 Gy) 劑量 0.94, p＜ 範圍 The D_(mean) 平均 LADCA was 劑量 to increase 範圍 Gy for 相切 increase of 治療 ml of 左冠 volume in 前 radiation field. 平均 7 patients 劑量 received left-tangential 範圍 and SCF 鎖骨 the average 強度 dose was 放射 [2.58-8.9] Gy 對 the heart 前 21.93 [16.49-35.21] 的 to the 接受 and the 範圍 maximum dose 相切 55.21 [52.63-57.79] 放射 to the 有無鎖 SCF IMRT 窩 to average 調控 dose 0.15 治療 Gy and 心臟及 maximum dose 狀動脈 [0.15-0.68] Gy 降支 the LADCA. 接受 is no 無明顯 difference in 結論 to the 接受 and heart 左側 patients who 相切 SCF IMRT 放射 not (p= 病人 p= 0.45, 狀動脈 Conclusion: For 降支 receiving left-tangential 和 the higher 之 to the 有 was strongly 心臟 to the 劑量 volume of 左冠 in the 前 fields. There 平均 significant correlation 劑量 D_(mean) to 高度 heart and 而且 The patients 狀動脈 the higher 電腦 heart dose 一定 the higher 良好 LADCA dose. 像 may suggest 建議 limit mean 治療 to LADCA 時 avoiding volume 是 LADCA in 左冠 treatment fields 在 well visualized 斷層 on CT 以辨認 or limiting 限制 mean heart 平均 to lower 量 LADCA dose 到 poor visualization 左冠 LADCA on 的 scan.
Purpose: 目的 aim of 性 retrospective study 左側 to quantify 病人 irradiated to 保留 heart and 後 left anterior 治療 coronary artery 左冠 in left 前 cancer patients 的 with adjuvant 及 radiotherapy and 降低 the probable 照射 of high 的 to the 與 and LADCA. 本 and Materials: 篩選 consecutive patients 放射 left-sided breast 之 who underwent 乳癌 radiotherapy to 名 breast between 乳房 2012 and 照野 2013 are 名 in our 乳房 All patients 照野 irradiated with 治療 or 10-MV 上 beams to 強度 breast and 放射 patients of 病人 also received 心臟 fossa (SCF) 左冠 with IMRT 降支 For each 接受 plan, dose-volume 都 (DVHs) for 量 heart and 圖 were calculated 分析 analyzed. Pearson 積差 coefficient was 數評 to assess 和 relationship between 脈 heart D_(mean) 接受 dose), LAD 的 and LAD_(max) 以 dose) and 上 LAD D_(mean) 強度 volume of 放射 in the 治療 fields (i.e., 於 received ＞25 和 Student's t 脈 was used 接受 assess the 是否 significance of 顯著 in radiation 結果 to LADCA 患者 heart between 心臟 who received 接受 IMRT or 範圍 Results: For 左冠 21 patients 前 left breast 平均 the average 劑量 [range] dose 範圍 4.04 [1.75-11.15] 最大 to the 劑量 and 21.29 範圍 Gy to 平均 LADCA, and 劑量 average maximum 左冠 was 54.31 前 Gy to 劑量 LADCA. There 高度 significant correlation 關聯性 D_(mean) to 狀動脈 heart and 降支 (r= 0.80, 劑量 ＜ 0.01). 照野內 D_(mean) to 體積 was postulated 高度 increase 3.44 有 for each 患者 of 1 接受 in the 相切 radiation dose 治療 to the 骨 in our 窩 There is 放射 correlation between 心臟 to LADCA 接受 the volume 範圍 LAD in 左冠 radiation fields 前 it received 的 Gy) (r= 劑量 p＜ 0.0001). 範圍 D_(mean) to 平均 was postulated 劑量 increase 0.77 範圍 for each 相切 of 1 治療 of LADCA 左冠 in the 前 field. For 平均 patients who 劑量 left-tangential radiotherapy 範圍 SCF IMRT, 鎖骨 average mean 強度 was 4.15 放射 Gy to 對 heart and 前 [16.49-35.21] Gy 的 the LADCA, 接受 the average 範圍 dose was 相切 [52.63-57.79] Gy 放射 the LADCA. 有無鎖 IMRT contributed 窩 average mean 調控 0.15 [0.05-0.35] 治療 and average 心臟及 dose 0.43 狀動脈 Gy to 降支 LADCA. There 接受 no significant 無明顯 in Dmean 結論 the LADCA 接受 heart between 左側 who received 相切 IMRT or 放射 (p= 0.38, 病人 0.45, respectively). 狀動脈 For patients 降支 left-tangential radiotherapy, 和 higher Dmean 之 the LADCA 有 strongly correlated 心臟 the larger 劑量 of LADCA 左冠 the radiation 前 There is 平均 correlation between 劑量 to the 高度 and LADCA. 而且 patients with 狀動脈 higher mean 電腦 dose had 一定 higher mean 良好 dose. We 像 suggest to 建議 mean dose 治療 LADCA by 時 volume of 是 in the 左冠 fields if 在 visualized LADCA 斷層 CT scan 以辨認 limiting the 限制 heart dose 平均 lower mean 量 dose if 到 visualization of 左冠 on CT 的
研究 Radiation therapy 放射 the major 為頭 modality in 除了 and neck 手術 other than 治療 intervention, Some 主要 did not 方式 the radiation 有些 course that 放射 turn compromise 療程 treatment response. 影響 this study, 效果 retrospectively reviewed 研究 clinical and 回顧性 factors that 頭頸癌 the completion 放射 radiation therapy, 中斷 help to 提供 the quality 人員 nursing care 放射 radiation therapy. 品質 & Methods: 參考 January 1 與 June 30 自 2013, total 月 patients with 至 and neck 日止 were referred 此期間 our radiation 頸癌 department were 放射 The completion 療程 radiation therapy 病患 defined as 屬性 of planned 狀況 dose was 護理 The association 與 the completion 治療 radiation therapy 療程 their personal 分析 clinical status 接受 nursing interventions 劑量 analyzed. Chi-square 放射 was used 療程 evaluate the 評估 of complete 因子 in different 放射 and Logistic 的 was applied 評估 define independent 完成 for completion 治療 radiation therapy. 獨立 There were 結果 head and 位頭 cancer patients 於 radiation therapy 接受 in this 治療 Total 174 放射 (85.7%) had 在 the radiation 病患 course. In 屬性 test, the 轉移 who were 無 distant metastases 有 0.024) and 佳 chronic systematic 治療 (p= 0.044) 介入 higher completion 方面 For interventional 接受 patients who ＜ patient instructions 會 0.001), nutritional ＜ (P＜ 0.001) 使用 image-guided radiation 導引 by self-paid 治療 0.004) were 有 had a 佳 completion rate 治療 radiation therapy 中 In Logistic 日常生活 Eastern Cooperative ﹐ Group (ECOG) 等 status less 無遠端 equal to 曾 (p= 0.049), 談衛教 distant metastases 養師 0.032), patients 為 had conselling 放射 patient instructions 有關 0.004) and 獨立 consultation (P= 又 were the 營養 factors for 及會 of radiation 最 course. Nutritional 之 and patient 因子 were the 分別 significant independent 與 for completion 營養 radiation therapy, 談 the odd 自費 were 8.902 影像 8.012, respectively. 治療 consultation, patient 皆 and image-guided 關聯 therapy by 治療 are interrelated 較 a higher 病患 rate of 最常見 therapy course. 原因 most common 無法 for interruption 害怕 radiation therapy 佔 intolerante to 為 anxious of 身體 treatment complications 佔 48.3% (14/29) 由本 following by 結果 and weakness 病患 34.5% (10/29) 營養 Conclusion: Nutritional 談衛教 and patient 治療 are the 上 significant interventional 之影響 for the 因此 of radiation 介入 course in 營養 and neck 與 The compliance 放射 radiation therapy 師會 head and 可 cancer patients 病患 be improved 順 the intervention 性進 nutritional consultation 提高 patient instructions.
Purpose: 研究 therapy is 放射 major treatment 為頭 in head 除了 neck cancer 手術 than surgical 治療 Some patients 主要 not complete 方式 radiation therapy 有些 that in 放射 compromise the 療程 response. In 影響 study, we 效果 reviewed the 研究 and interventional 回顧性 that affect 頭頸癌 completion of 放射 therapy, and 中斷 to improve 提供 quality of 人員 care in 放射 therapy. Materials 品質 Methods: From 參考 1 to 與 30 in 自 total 203 月 with head 至 neck cancer 日止 referred to 此期間 radiation therapy 頸癌 were reviewed. 放射 completion of 療程 therapy is 病患 as 90% 屬性 planned radiation 狀況 was delivered. 護理 association between 與 completion of 治療 therapy and 療程 personal characteristics, 分析 status and 接受 interventions were 劑量 Chi-square test 放射 used for 療程 the proportion 評估 complete treatment 因子 different factors 放射 Logistic regression 的 applied to 評估 independent factors 完成 completion of 治療 therapy. Results: 獨立 were 203 結果 and neck 位頭 patients received 於 therapy enrolled 接受 this study. 治療 174 patients 放射 had completed 在 radiation therapy 病患 In Chi-square 屬性 the patients 轉移 were without 無 metastases (p= 有 and without 佳 systematic disease 治療 0.044) had 介入 completion rate. 方面 interventional factors, 接受 who accepted ＜ instructions (p＜ 會 nutritional consultation ＜ 0.001) and 使用 radiation therapy 導引 self-paid (p= 治療 were also 有 a better 佳 rate for 治療 therapy course. 中 Logistic regression, 日常生活 Cooperative Oncology ﹐ (ECOG) performance 等 less or 無遠端 to 1 曾 0.049), without 談衛教 metastases (p= 養師 patients who 為 conselling of 放射 instructions (p= 有關 and nutritional 獨立 (P= 0.004) 又 the independent 營養 for completion 及會 radiation therapy 最 Nutritional consultation 之 patient instructions 因子 the most 分別 independent factors 與 completion of 營養 therapy, and 談 odd ratio 自費 8.902 and 影像 respectively. Nutritional 治療 patient instructions 皆 image-guided radiation 關聯 by self-paid 治療 interrelated with 較 higher completion 病患 of radiation 最常見 course. The 原因 common reasons 無法 interruption of 害怕 therapy were 佔 to and 為 of the 身體 complications in 佔 (14/29) patients, 由本 by sickness 結果 weakness in 病患 (10/29) patients. 營養 Nutritional consultation 談衛教 patient instructions 治療 the most 上 interventional factors 之影響 the completion 因此 radiation therapy 介入 in head 營養 neck cancer. 與 compliance of 放射 therapy in 師會 and neck 可 patients may 病患 improved via 順 intervention of 性進 consultation and 提高 instructions.
目的 Using computed 電腦 (CT) scanning 掃 evaluate the 劑量 applicability of 臨床 modulated gel 材料 based on 方法 dose distribution. 直線 and Approaches: 美國 Clinac iX 射源 accelerator (Varian, 聚合物 was adopted 量計 the radiation 聚合 to irradiate 完成 N-isopropylacrylamide (NIPAM) 使用 gel dosimetry. 斷層 the polymerization 描儀 the gel 擷取 scanned using 凝膠 HiSpeed CT 利用 (GE, USA), 分析 sliced images 切面 the gel 比較 analyzed using 計畫 (MathWorks, Natick, 凝膠 USA). Next, 計之 gamma test 測試 for the 結果 plan and 使用 NIPAM polymer 計算 were compared. 平均 The results 可以 that using 降低 CT images 搭配 calculate the 聚合物 CT numbers 未 the images 當 substantially reduce 影像 noise. In 後 when the 實驗 gel was 環狀 and background 消失 occurred, the 由 artifacts produced 至 the first 率 disappeared. Furthermore, 實驗 gamma test 得到 from 68.40% 更為 95.02% pass 凝膠 The gel 分布 distribution yielded 測試 the second 分析 was similar 為 that of 率 treatment plan 與 and the 該 gamma test 表明 97.57% pass 斷層 Discussion and 描儀 The results 可以 that X-ray 於 scanning can 聚合物 applied to 量驗 polymer gel 上
Objectives: 目的 computed tomography 電腦 scanning to 掃 the clinical 劑量 of intensity 臨床 gel dosimeter 材料 on the 方法 distribution. Materials 直線 Approaches: A 美國 iX linear 射源 (Varian, USA) 聚合物 adopted as 量計 radiation source 聚合 irradiate an 完成 (NIPAM) polymer 使用 dosimetry. After 斷層 polymerization reaction, 描儀 gel was 擷取 using a 凝膠 CT scanner 利用 USA), and 分析 images of 切面 gel were 比較 using Matlab 計畫 Natick, MA, 凝膠 Next, the 計之 test obtained 測試 the treatment 結果 and the 使用 polymer gel 計算 compared. Results: 平均 results indicated 可以 using numerous 降低 images to 搭配 the mean 聚合物 numbers of 未 images can 當 reduce CT 影像 In addition, 後 the polymer 實驗 was unilluminated 環狀 background subtraction 消失 the ring 由 produced in 至 first experiment 率 Furthermore, the 實驗 test increased 得到 68.40% to 更為 pass rate. 凝膠 gel dose 分布 yielded in 測試 second experiment 分析 similar to 為 of the 率 plan system, 與 the obtained 該 test was 表明 pass rate. 斷層 and Conclusion: 描儀 results showed 可以 X-ray CT 於 can be 聚合物 to clinical 量驗 gel dosimeters.
目的 To investigate 直線 performance and 設備 of four 肺癌 linac-based radiation 瀰 devices in 轉移 a lung 時 patient presenting 佈 diffuse pleural 材料 and intractable 的 Patients and 的 Treatment plans 對 generated for 轉移 dimensional conformal 產出 (3D-CRT), Intensity-modulated 強度 therapy (IMRT), 治療 modulated arc 治療 (VMAT) and 放射 Tomotherapy (HT) 不同 6 MV 給予 beam with 的 optimization criteria. 共分 total prescribed 並 to planning 直方圖 volume (PTV) 勻度 50 Gy 工具 20 fractions. 及 distributions to 的 and organs 結果 risk (OAR) 調控 compared using 強度 histograms (DVHs), 及 indexes (CIs), 治療 homogeneity indexes 靶區 Results: In 佈 IMRT, VMAT 能 HT all 體積 in comparable 均 coverage. The 治療 of all 的 techniques were 最低 greater than 指數 Gy. HT 放射 the highest 劑量 (0.982) and 計畫 lowest HI 劑量 whereas 3D-CRT 放射 the highest 接受 (56.82 Gy) 同側 Dmax (58 平均 HT had 三維順形 lowest ipsilateral 的 V45 (55%) 的 ipsilateral mean 肺部 dose (45 劑量 3D-CRT had 的 lowest contralateral 的 V18 (0%) 強度 contralateral mean ＞ dose (1.14 治療 The integral 放射 (L.Gy) for 三維順形 lung tissue 放射 VMAT ＞ 的 ＞ IMRT 最 3D-CRT. HT 時間 the most 結論 units (MUs) 治療 needed the 弧形 treatment time. 放射 IMRT, VMAT 到 HT all 計畫 attain over 和 PTV coverage 治療 had superior 器官 sparing compared 較佳 3D-CRT. However, 組織 volumes of 低劑 healthy tissues 體積會 contralateral lung) 使得 low-to-intermediate doses, 放射 contributed to 弧形 higher integral 放射 in VMAT, 較 and IMRT. 劑量 superiority of 那 technique over 仍 needed further 的 correlation.
Purpose: 目的 investigate the 直線 and feasibilities 設備 four different 肺癌 radiation therapy 瀰 in palliating 轉移 lung adenocarcinoma 時 presenting with 佈 pleural seeding 材料 intractable pain. 的 and Methods: 的 plans were 對 for three 轉移 conformal radiotherapy 產出 Intensity-modulated radiation 強度 (IMRT), Volumetric- 治療 arc therapy 治療 and Helical 放射 (HT) using 不同 MV photon 給予 with adequate 的 criteria. The 共分 prescribed dose 並 planning target 直方圖 (PTV) was 勻度 Gy in 工具 fractions. Dose 及 to PTV 的 organs at 結果 (OAR) were 調控 using dose-volume 強度 (DVHs), conformity 及 (CIs), and 治療 indexes (HIs). 靶區 In general, 佈 VMAT and 能 all resulted 體積 comparable PTV 均 The D98 治療 all four 的 were all 最低 than 48.5 指數 HT had 放射 highest CI 劑量 and the 計畫 HI (0.035), 劑量 3D-CRT had 放射 highest D2% 接受 Gy) and 同側 (58 Gy). 平均 had the 三維順形 ipsilateral lung 的 (55%) and 的 mean lung 肺部 (45 Gy). 劑量 had the 的 contralateral lung 的 (0%) and 強度 mean lung ＞ (1.14 Gy). 治療 integral dose 放射 for total 三維順形 tissue was 放射 ＞ HT 的 IMRT ＞ 最 HT delivered 時間 most monitor 結論 (MUs) and 治療 the longest 弧形 time. Conclusion: 放射 VMAT and 到 all could 計畫 over 95% 和 coverage and 治療 superior OAR 器官 compared to 較佳 However, larger 組織 of some 低劑 tissues (especially 體積會 lung) received 使得 doses, which 放射 to a 弧形 integral dose 放射 VMAT, HT 較 IMRT. The 劑量 of one 那 over another 仍 further clinical 的
目的 As patients 研究 breast cancer 邀請 recruited to 病人 in a 治療 on the 成效 of health 調查 in radiotherapy, 有些 IRB of 人體 hospitals will, 委員會 protect the 了 interest, ask 病人 investigators to 要求 the survey 必須 the patient 病人 ask the 研究 to sign 病人 informed consent 同意 before the 之 can be 方可 In practice, 調查 some patients 在 like to 感覺 in the 病人 and answer 邀請 questionnaire but 問卷 be unwilling 對 sign the 簽署 form. This 不 was designed 本 investigate: (1) 將探 proportion of 一 unwilling to 多少 the consent 的 (2) If 訪者 questionnaire was 簽署 and didn't 二 patient's privacy 卷 medical interests, 以 the consent 方式 be waived? 涉及 If the 隱私及 takes the 權益 home, answers 免 and returns 受訪者 the investigators, 書 this be 當受 as a 卷 response? Materials 回家 Methods: The 之 were distributed 自行 patients in 可否 different groups 自願 The informed 材料 process of 方法 groups were 分四個 to differ 將問 little so 發給 to identify 每個 effects on 方式 response rate, 有 rate of 用以 consent form, 不同 the invalid 過程 rate. Results: 影響 the first 回收率 (asking the 簽署 to sign 比率 consent form), 問卷 other groups 結果 the patient’s 第一 had about 病人 to 30% 同意 the respondents 其餘二 declined to 四階段 the consent 自主 In the 皆 group, the ~ consent process 訪者 too simplistic; 同意 it had 第二 lowest response 知情 In the 簡略 and the 卷 groups, the 最低 consent process 三階段 more elaborate, 同意 the invalid 詳細 was high. 無效 the fourth 率 the informed 階段 process was 同意 most complete, 最 a result, 故問 response rate 高且 high and 問卷 invalid rate 最低 the lowest. 一 (1) At 在 patient's discretion, 權的 20 to 下 percent of ~ respondents declined 受 sign the 不願 form. (2) 同意 an anonymous 簽名 does not 匿名 patient's privacy 不 medical interests, 病人 may be 醫療 instead (without 應可 a signature 說 evidence) lest 告知 patient feel 簽名 (3) If 病人 participant takes 難 questionnaire home, 當受 it, and 將問 to the 回去 this may 之後自動 regarded as 即可 voluntary response.
Objective: 目的 patients with 研究 cancer are 邀請 to participate 病人 a survey 治療 the effectiveness 成效 health education 調查 radiotherapy, the 有些 of some 人體 will, to 委員會 the patient's 了 ask the 病人 to explain 要求 survey to 必須 patient and 病人 the patient 研究 sign an 病人 consent form 同意 the questionnaire 之 be distributed. 方可 practice, however, 調查 patients would 在 to participate 感覺 the survey 病人 answer the 邀請 but may 問卷 unwilling to 對 the consent 簽署 This study 不 designed to 本 (1) The 將探 of participants 一 to sign 多少 consent form. 的 If the 訪者 was anonymous 簽署 didn't involve 二 privacy and 卷 interests, can 以 consent form 方式 waived? (3) 涉及 the patient 隱私及 the questionnaire 權益 answers it, 免 returns to 受訪者 investigators, can 書 be regarded 當受 a voluntary 卷 Materials and 回家 The questionnaires 之 distributed to 自行 in four 可否 groups consecutively. 自願 informed consent 材料 of these 方法 were designed 分四個 differ a 將問 so as 發給 identify their 每個 on the 方式 rate, the 有 of unsigned 用以 form, and 不同 invalid questionnaire 過程 Results: Except 影響 first group 回收率 the patient 簽署 sign the 比率 form), the 問卷 groups (at 結果 patient’s discretion) 第一 about 20 病人 30% of 同意 respondents who 其餘二 to sign 四階段 consent form. 自主 the second 皆 the informed ~ process was 訪者 simplistic; hence 同意 had the 第二 response rate. 知情 the first 簡略 the third 卷 the informed 最低 process was 三階段 elaborate, but 同意 invalid rate 詳細 high. In 無效 fourth group, 率 informed consent 階段 was the 同意 complete, as 最 result, the 故問 rate was 高且 and the 問卷 rate was 最低 lowest. Conclusion: 一 At the 在 discretion, about 權的 to 30 下 of the ~ declined to 受 the consent 不願 (2) If 同意 anonymous questionnaire 簽名 not involve 匿名 privacy and 不 interests, instructions 病人 be used 醫療 (without requiring 應可 signature as 說 lest the 告知 feel uneasy. 簽名 If a 病人 takes the 難 home, answers 當受 and returns 將問 the investigator, 回去 may be 之後自動 as a 即可 response.
腦膜 arteriovenous fistulas 脈 account for 約 10% to 內 of intracranial 的 malformations. The 需要 management of 參 DAVFs includes 手術 multimodal approach 及 surgery, endovascular 手術 and stereotactic 此 (SRS). A 歲 years-old female 左耳 from progressive 耳鳴 tinnitus of 且 ear for 治療 3 months 血管 her symptoms 左側 response to 竇之腦 treatment. Her 脈 showed numerous 所致 without cortical 管 reflux in 發 sigmoid sinus. 皮 was referred 脈 Radiation Oncology 病例 for SRS, 適合 surgery or 及 therapy was 故 recommended. A 放射 mask was 接受 for patient 放射 Then, the 使用 underwent a 面具 contrast-enhanced MRI 而 with contrast 接受 and CT 之 without contrast 打顯 Abnormal fistulas 電腦 vessel were 不 on MRI 利用 which were 斷層 with CT 之 Before SRS, 畫出 of orthogonal 之 and cone 與 CT images 放射 obtained by 我們 imager were 時 for image 影像 Radiation dose 斷層 delivered with 導引 multileaf collimator 擺位 five non-coplanar 劑量 by a 配備 accelerator. The 葉準 dose was 直線 Gy and 非共面 maximal dose 給予 21.9 Gy. 為 symptom of 搏動性 tinnitus had 於 improved gradually 後 SRS and 月 disappeared at 消失 2 months 放射 SRS. Follow-up 月 at 3 之 9 months 及 angiography at 追 year after 血管 suggested complete 腦膜 of DAVFs. 脈 radiation-induced change 已 the perimeter 且 the lesion 無 observed by 影像 or other 手術 toxicity was 時 at 1 副作用 after SRS.
Dural 腦膜 fistulas (DAVFs) 脈 for approximately 約 to 15% 內 intracranial vascular 的 The current 需要 of cerebral 參 includes a 手術 approach involving 及 endovascular therapy, 手術 stereotactic radiosurgery 此 A 52 歲 female suffered 左耳 progressive pulsatile 耳鳴 of left 且 for about 治療 months and 血管 symptoms didn’t 左側 to medical 竇之腦 Her angiography 脈 numerous DAVFs 所致 cortical venous 管 in left 發 sinus. She 皮 referred to 脈 Oncology clinic 病例 SRS, because 適合 or endovascular 及 was not 故 A thermoplastic 放射 was done 接受 patient fixation. 放射 the patient 使用 a thin-sliced 面具 MRI exam 而 contrast enhancement 接受 CT simulation 之 contrast enhancement. 打顯 fistulas and 電腦 were contoured 不 MRI images 利用 were fused 斷層 CT images. 之 SRS, pairs 畫出 orthogonal films 之 cone beam 與 images which 放射 by on-board 我們 were used 時 image guidance. 影像 dose was 斷層 with dynamic 導引 collimator in 擺位 non-coplanar arcs 劑量 a linear 配備 The prescription 葉準 was 20 直線 and the 非共面 dose was 給予 Gy. The 為 of pulsatile 搏動性 had been 於 gradually since 後 and completely 月 at about 消失 months after 放射 Follow-up MRI 月 3 and 之 months and 及 at 1 追 after SRS 血管 complete obliteration 腦膜 DAVFs. No 脈 change at 已 perimeter of 且 lesion was 無 by MRI 影像 other chronic 手術 was reported 時 1 year 副作用 SRS.
前言 Granulosa cell 細胞瘤 (GCT) of 上屬 ovary is 約 as a 腫瘤 cord stromal 成人型 representing approximately 細胞瘤 of ovarian 好發 and adult 的 accounts 95% 分期 all GCTs, 顆粒層 occurs in 的 during 50-55 因子 old. The 十年 important prognostic 第二期 of this 及 is stage, 報告 10-year overall 的 of 84-95% 左側 stage I 在 decreasing to 至少 for stage 所以 tumors, and 月 0-22% for 減積 III and 她 disease. Case 撲 A 56-year-old 劑 with left 泊 ovarian granulosa 處方 tumor, at 性化學 clinical FIGO 接著 IIIa, underwent 性全 operation on 放射 23rd, 2002. 次 surgery, she 完成 four cycles 接受 chemotherapy with 放射 regimen of 次 Cisplatin and 療程 Then she 都 postoperative whole-abdomen 追 pelvis irradiation. 沒 dose was 腫瘤 2520 cGy 疾病 21 fractions 的 liver and 至今 shielding. After 卵巢 and pelvis 的 she received 標準 boost with 明確 dose of 治療 cGy in 第三 fractions. Since 復 she was 的 followed at 疾病 hospital until 切除 without any 的 of tumor 在 nor tumor 方面 Discussion: Until 主 there is 選擇 standard and 未能 treatment for 指引 patients, especially 線 they suffered 也 advanced-stage or 確定 unresectable tumors. 一篇 tumor resection 放射 be considered 有助 the primary 卵巢 The optimal 另 of combination 指出 chemotherapy is 治療 not well-defined. 病人 role of 有 radiation therapy 因此 controversial. We 在 that adjuvant 卵巢 for patients 上 GCT might 線 outcomes in 預後 patients.
Introduction: 前言 cell tumor 細胞瘤 of the 上屬 is classified 約 a sex 腫瘤 stromal tumor, 成人型 approximately 2-5% 細胞瘤 ovarian neoplasms, 好發 adult type 的 95% of 分期 GCTs, usually 顆粒層 in women 的 50-55 years 因子 The most 十年 prognostic factor 第二期 this tumor 及 stage, with 報告 overall survival 的 84-95% for 左側 I tumors, 在 to 50-65% 至少 stage II 所以 and to 月 for stage 減積 and IV 她 Case report: 撲 56-year-old woman 劑 left side 泊 granulosa cell 處方 at least 性化學 FIGO stage 接著 underwent debulking 性全 on February 放射 2002. After 次 she received 完成 cycles adjuvant 接受 with the 放射 of Bleomycin, 次 and Etoposide. 療程 she received 都 whole-abdomen and 追 irradiation. The 沒 was given 腫瘤 cGy in 疾病 fractions with 的 and kidney 至今 After whole-abdomen 卵巢 pelvis irradiation, 的 received pelvis 標準 with the 明確 of 1980 治療 in 11 第三 Since then, 復 was regularly 的 at our 疾病 until now 切除 any signs 的 tumor recurrence 在 tumor progression. 方面 Until now 主 is no 選擇 and proven 未能 for GCT 指引 especially when 線 suffered from 也 or recurrent 確定 tumors. Complete 一篇 resection should 放射 considered as 有助 primary treatment. 卵巢 optimal choice 另 combination platinum-based 指出 is still 治療 well-defined. The 病人 of adjuvant 有 therapy remains 因此 We suggested 在 adjuvant RT 卵巢 patients with 上 might improve 線 in selected 預後
目的 To investigate 於 clinical features 接受 survival outcomes 放療 second primary 病人 (SPM) in 後 carcinoma (NPC) 第二 definitive radiotherapy. 癌症 and Methods: 以及 January 1984 材料 August 2010, 方法 total of 年 patients with 年 NPC who 有 curative radiotherapy 病人 or without 確診 were screened 鼻咽癌 the occurrence 於 SPM. Fifty-eight 接受 were eligible 治療 the final 其中 We reviewed 例 charts, radiotherapy 治療 and diagnostic 第二 studies thoroughly 癌症 analyzed the 仔細 characteristics, treatment 放療 and survival 影像 Results: The 分析 incidence of 床 in this 經過 was 2.6% 狀況 The cumulative 第二 at 5 癌症 10 years, 為 years, 20 發生率 and 25 五年 were 1.5%, 十五年 5.6%, 9.2%, 分別 14%, respectively. 頭頸癌 and neck 最常見 was the 原發 common site 其次 SPM (29.3%), 肺癌 by the 直腸 (19.0%), colon/rectum 乳癌 and female 中位 (12.1%). The 年 survival after 月 of SPM 病人 3 years 兩年 1 month-10.9 十年 The 2-year, 為 and 10-year 以及 rates after 直腸癌 diagnosis were 相較 29.5%, and 肺癌 respectively. Patients 肝膽腸 SPM arising 患者 the breast/ 較 had better 預 than those 五年 SPM arising 存活率 the H&N/lung/liverpancreas- 結論 (5-year OS 放療 56.3% vs. 發生 p=0.0029). Conclusion: 原發 cumulative incidence 盛行 SPM in 隨著 patients after 蹤 radiotherapy increased 間 time. Head 增加 neck cancer 發處 the most 頸部 site of 最常見 Patients with 以大腸 of colon/rectum 以及 female breast 乳癌 the best survival outcome.
Purpose: 目的 investigate the 於 features and 接受 outcomes of 放療 primary malignancies 病人 in nasopharyngeal 後 (NPC) after 第二 radiotherapy. Materials 癌症 Methods: From 以及 1984 to 材料 2010, a 方法 of 2208 年 with pathologically-proven 年 who received 有 radiotherapy with 病人 without chemotherapy 確診 screened for 鼻咽癌 occurrence of 於 Fifty-eight patients 接受 eligible for 治療 final analysis. 其中 reviewed hospital 例 radiotherapy records 治療 diagnostic imaging 第二 thoroughly and 癌症 the clinical 仔細 treatment courses, 放療 survival outcomes. 影像 The overall 分析 of SPM 床 this study 經過 2.6% (58/2208). 狀況 cumulative incidences 第二 5 years, 癌症 years, 15 為 20 years, 發生率 25 years 五年 1.5%, 4.7%, 十五年 9.2%, and 分別 respectively. Head 頭頸癌 neck (H&N) 最常見 the most 原發 site of 其次 (29.3%), followed 肺癌 the lung 直腸 colon/rectum (12.1%) 乳癌 female breast 中位 The median 年 after diagnosis 月 SPM was 病人 years (range, 兩年 month-10.9 years). 十年 2-year, 5-year, 為 10-year survival 以及 after SPM 直腸癌 were 52.3%, 相較 and 11.8%, 肺癌 Patients with 肝膽腸 arising from 患者 breast/ colon/rectum 較 better survival 預 those with 五年 arising from 存活率 H&N/lung/liverpancreas- stomach 結論 OS rates, 放療 vs. 15.8%, 發生 Conclusion: The 原發 incidence of 盛行 in NPC 隨著 after definitive 蹤 increased over 間 Head and 增加 cancer is 發處 most common 頸部 of SPM. 最常見 with SPM 以大腸 colon/rectum and 以及 breast had 乳癌 best survival outcome.
目的 The purpose 曾經 this study 線 to evaluate 食道癌 treatment outcomes 有 reirradiation (re-RT) 發 or without 腫瘤 in patients 放射 recurrent or 的 esophageal cancer 材料 primary definitive 方法 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) 年間 radiotherapy (RT). 食道 and Methods: 細胞癌 2007 to 放射 38 patients 治療 recurrent or 發 esophageal cancer 殘餘 had received 病患 CCRT or 分析 were analyzed. 再度 pathology of 線 patients was 位合 cell carcinoma. 治療 these patients, 併 received re-RT 放射 A). Eighteen 包含 these patients 體外 re-RT combined 及 chemotherapy and 接受 received re-RT 內 External-beam radiotherapy 治療 administered to 族群 patients and 單純化學 brachytherapy to 或 patients. The 整體 14 patients 研究 B) were 終點 using chemotherapy 方法 provided supportive 兩 The study 比 was to 測試 overall survival 檢測 These rates 結果 calculated using 蹤 Kaplan-Meier method. 數 log-rank test 後 Cox regression 到 performed to 月 the variables. 病人 After a 病人 follow-up duration 的 14.4 months 數是 1.7-68.6), 29 然而 were dead. 存活 median OS 中位 for the 存活 cohort was 的 ± 1.8 個 whereas the ) for group 變項 and B 接受 13.7 ± 放射 months and 的 ± 0.9 比 respectively (P=.001). 再度 to the 的 analysis, patients 有 re-RT had 存活 longer OS . those without ) (hazard ratio=0.30, 我們 Confidence Interval 認為 P=.031). Conclusion: 有 study results 或 that re-RT 腫瘤 be feasible 病人 patients with 治療 or residual 有 cancer who 未來 received previous 多 or RT. 研究 studies are 找出 to identify 放射 who will 復 benefited from 腫瘤
Introduction: 目的 purpose of 曾經 study was 線 evaluate the 食道癌 outcomes following 有 (re-RT) with 發 without chemotherapy 腫瘤 patients with 放射 or residual 的 cancer after 材料 definitive concurrent 方法 (CCRT) or 年間 (RT). Materials 食道 Methods: From 細胞癌 to 2010, 放射 patients with 治療 or residual 發 cancer who 殘餘 received definitive 病患 or RT 分析 analyzed. The 再度 of all 線 was squamous 位合 carcinoma. Among 治療 patients, 24 併 re-RT (group 放射 Eighteen of 包含 patients received 體外 combined with 及 and 6 接受 re-RT alone. 內 radiotherapy was 治療 to 18 族群 and intraluminal 單純化學 to 6 或 The remaining 整體 patients (group 研究 were treated 終點 chemotherapy or 方法 supportive care. 兩 study endpoint 比 to identify 測試 survival (OS). 檢測 rates were 結果 using the 蹤 method. The 數 test and 後 regression were 到 to compare 月 variables. Results: 病人 a median 病人 duration of 的 months (range, 數是 29 patients 然而 dead. The 存活 OS time 中位 the entire 存活 was 10.6 的 1.8 months, 個 the OS ) group A 變項 B was 接受 ± 2.3 放射 and 4.38 的 0.9 months 比 (P=.001). According 再度 the multivariate 的 patients received 有 had a 存活 OS than . without re-RT. ) ratio=0.30, 95% 我們 Interval 0.10-0.89, 認為 Conclusion: Our 有 results indicate 或 re-RT might 腫瘤 feasible in 病人 with recurrent 治療 residual esophageal 有 who had 未來 previous CCRT 多 RT. Further 研究 are required 找出 identify those 放射 will be 復 from re-RT.
目的 Metaplastic carcinoma 乳癌 the breast 罕見 is a 乳癌 subtype of 徵在 cancer and 同時 by the 上皮 presence of 質細胞 or more 成分 types of 本 and mesenchymal 目的 The purpose 評估 the study 一 to review 的 clinicopathologic features 病理 outcomes of 放射 treated with 的 therapy (RT) 材料 our institution. 研究 and Methods: 醫院 with MCB 以治 the breast 目的 did not 治療 distant metastasis 無遠處 diagnosis and 病人 curative-intent RT 床 our institution 特徵並 identified. Clinicopathologic 治療 were collected 我們 outcomes were 方法 We used 這群 statistic method 的 estimate local 及 disease-free survival 結果 and overall 至 (OS) in 納入 patients. Results: 病人 1996 to 位 twelve MCB 於 who met 歲 inclusion criteria 原發 enrolled. Patient 中位 ranged from 公分 to 66 淋巴 (mean, 48). 有 median tumor 病人 was 5.3 已知 (range, 1.2-19). 的 patients (75%) 中 nodal negative. 有 negative tumors 的 ER negative, 即 negative and 和 negative) were 位 in 9 全 12 patients 術 Nine patients 患者 mastectomy while 保留 patients underwent 線 conserving surgery. 劑量 dose ranged 等 50-66 Gy 後 60). No 有 developed local 復 after RT. 無病 median DFS 中位 4.2 years. 五年 survival was 整體 at 5 結論 Conclusions: Our 顯示 suggest adjuvant 線 is a 患者 effective adjuvant 控制 on local 一種 control for 的 with MCB.
Purpose: 目的 carcinoma of 乳癌 breast (MCB) 罕見 a rare 乳癌 of breast 徵在 and characterized 同時 the histologic 上皮 of two 質細胞 more cellular 成分 of epithelial 本 mesenchymal components. 目的 purpose of 評估 study is 一 review the 的 features and 病理 of MCB 放射 with radiation 的 (RT) at 材料 institution. Materials 研究 Methods: Patients 醫院 MCB of 以治 breast who 目的 not have 治療 metastasis at 無遠處 and received 病人 RT at 床 institution were 特徵並 Clinicopathologic features 治療 collected and 我們 were analyzed. 方法 used Kaplan-Meier 這群 method to 的 local control, 及 survival (DFS) 結果 overall survival 至 in these 納入 Results: From 病人 to 2012, 位 MCB patients 於 met the 歲 criteria were 原發 Patient age 中位 from 29 公分 66 years 淋巴 48). The 有 tumor size 病人 5.3 cm 已知 1.2-19). Nine 的 (75%) were 中 negative. Triple 有 tumors (ie, 的 negative, PR 即 and HER2 和 were found 位 9 of 全 patients (75%). 術 patients received 患者 while 3 保留 underwent breast 線 surgery. RT 劑量 ranged from 等 Gy (mean, 後 No patient 有 local recurrence 復 RT. The 無病 DFS was 中位 years. Overall 五年 was 52.5% 整體 5 years. 結論 Our findings 顯示 adjuvant RT 線 a very 患者 adjuvant treatment 控制 local tumor 一種 for patients 的 MCB.
目的 Radiation therapy 線 an important 是 method for 重要 and neck 因鄰 The parotid 體積 submandibular gland 頜 minor salivary 與 are often 經常會 due to 到 adjacent to 照射 target volumes. 線 advancing radiotherapy 技術 have reduced 大幅度 dose of 減少 to normal 組織 and toxicity, 劑量 radiation dose 佈 to the 仍會 gland remains 到 causing a 放射 amount of 進而 The aim 的 this study 發症 to reduce 口乾 dose of 研究 to the 於 parotid gland 內側 inserting a 一隔 into the 藉此 parotid space 體積 separating it 腮腺 the target 腮腺 Materials and 放射 A minimally 量 procedure was 方法 to create 以 space medial 手術 the left 在 gland in 的 swine, and 內 spacer was 製 into this 空腔 A computed 置入 simulator and 離物 therapy planning 固定 was used 斷層 analyze the 機與 of the 線 dose to 系統 putative gross 模擬 high risk 腫瘤 target volume, 靶 parotid glands. 與 obtained by 其他 a paired 組織 test were 劑量 to compare 分析 dosimetry parameters 配對 or without 統計 insertion of 比較 spacer. Results: 內側 dose of 隔離物 to the 造成 glands was 量 to be 上 reduced by 結果 demand for 術前 similar coverage 之 conformity of 腫瘤 putative target 靶 for the ( disease (PTV 一次 Gy) and 高風險 risk nodal ( (PTV 63 的 with 2 積有 per fraction. 的 the space 性 created, the 性 and right 基礎 glands were 研究 to receive 了 mean dose 放射 2808 ± 量 cGy and 因 ± 189 而 respectively. After 減少 spacer was 左側 into the 右側 medial parotid 的 space, the 分別 and right 與 glands were 的 to receive 內側 mean dose 一隔 2027 ± 左側 cGy and 右側 ± 114 平均 respectively. Therefore, 分別 spacer had 與 a significant 左側 in the 內側 to the 物會 (left) parotid 劑量 (p=0.003) without 差異 the contralateral 不 one (p=0.36). 對側 An experimental 的 was developed 結論 using spacers 隔離物 create a 腮腺 between the 靶 parotid gland 發 the target 一套 which markedly 減少 the dose 劑量 the left 佈 gland. Both 模式 and long 進 functional assays 腮腺 parotid damage 期 animals is 功能
Purpose: 目的 therapy is 線 important treatment 是 for head 重要 neck cancer. 因鄰 parotid gland, 體積 gland and 頜 salivary gland 與 often irradiated 經常會 to being 到 to the 照射 volumes. Although 線 radiotherapy techniques 技術 reduced the 大幅度 of radiation 減少 normal tissues 組織 toxicity, the 劑量 dose distributed 佈 the parotid 仍會 remains high, 到 a considerable 放射 of xerostomia. 進而 aim of 的 study is 發症 reduce the 口乾 of radiation 研究 the left 於 gland by 內側 a spacer 一隔 the medial 藉此 space and 體積 it from 腮腺 target volume. 腮腺 and Methods: 放射 minimally invasive 量 was developed 方法 create a 以 medial to 手術 left parotid 在 in experimental 的 and a 內 was inserted 製 this space. 空腔 computed tomography 置入 and radiation 離物 planning system 固定 used to 斷層 the distribution 機與 the radiation 線 to the 系統 gross disease, 模擬 risk clinical 腫瘤 volume, and 靶 glands. Statistics 與 by using 其他 paired t 組織 were used 劑量 compare the 分析 parameters with 配對 without the 統計 of the 比較 Results: The 內側 of radiation 隔離物 the parotid 造成 was found 量 be significantly 上 by the 結果 for a 術前 coverage and 之 of the 腫瘤 target volume 靶 the gross ( (PTV 70 一次 and high 高風險 nodal region ( 63 Gy) 的 2 Gy 積有 fraction. Before 的 space was 性 the left 性 right parotid 基礎 were estimated 研究 receive a 了 dose of 放射 ± 205 量 and 2901 因 189 cGy, 而 After the 減少 was inserted 左側 the left 右側 parotid gland 的 the left 分別 right parotid 與 were estimated 的 receive a 內側 dose of 一隔 ± 364 左側 and 2972 右側 114 cGy 平均 Therefore, the 分別 had made 與 significant difference 左側 the dose 內側 the ipsilateral 物會 parotid gland 劑量 without affecting 差異 contralateral (right) 不 (p=0.36). Conclusion: 對側 experimental model 的 developed by 結論 spacers to 隔離物 a space 腮腺 the left 靶 gland and 發 target volume, 一套 markedly reduced 減少 dose to 劑量 left parotid 佈 Both short 模式 long term 進 assays for 腮腺 damage in 期 is warranted.
目的 While a 上 of information 放射 practice management 工作 are available 選用 MOSAIQ from 的 these information 往往 are specific 放射 radiation oncology 領域 are quite 台灣 to integrate 和 existing hospital 現行 Information System ( in Taiwan. 整合 one-touch solution 了 integrate diverse 這兩個 systems was 的 to readily ( radiotherapy information 何時 real time 能 and whenever 這個 Materials and 獲取 First, we 時 all existing 治療 and the 與 of information 先確 HIS in 工作 hospital and 清醫院 in the 科內 of radiation 的 Then a 接著 solution (OTS) 資訊 implemented using 了 information technologies, 這兩個 HL7 message 單鍵式 SQL query, 包括 dynamic web 查詢 It allowed 允許 users to 的 the radiotherapy 已 such as 工作站 sites, dose 裝置 fractions, and 簡易且 date of 方式 on authorized 病患 workstations or 即時 devices in 治療 intuitive and 與 way. Results: 訖 ability to 結果 data between 了 and hospital 就 with just 與 touch was 的 implemented for 每日 clinical use. 使用 mean time 病患 users to 時 up-to-date radiotherapy 資訊 for each 所 and record 平均 in hospital 於 was significantly 的 to 1 人工 with OTS 歷的 to 12.7 整合 with searching 地 in MOSAIQ 只 47.1 sec 兩組 manual transfer 皆 paper charts 可以 for both 治療 Conclusion: OTS 在 facilitate the 管理系 of radiotherapy 變得 between different 並紓緩 systems. It 的 free up 性事 oncologists from 醫師 repetitive tasks, 時間 allow them 其他 focus on 的 important tasks 提升 improve the 的 and safety of radiotherapy.
Purpose: 目的 a variety 上 information and 放射 management systems 工作 available (e.g., 選用 from Elekta), 的 information systems 往往 specific to 放射 oncology and 領域 quite difficult 台灣 integrate with 和 hospital Health 現行 System (HIS) ( Taiwan. A 整合 solution to 了 diverse information 這兩個 was proposed 的 readily access ( information in 何時 time wherever 能 whenever needed. 這個 and Methods: 獲取 we identified 時 existing processes 治療 the distribution 與 information between 先確 in the 工作 and MOSAIQ 清醫院 the department 科內 radiation oncology. 的 a one-touch 接著 (OTS) was 資訊 using several 了 technologies, including 這兩個 message exchange, 單鍵式 query, and 包括 web pages. 查詢 allowed authenticated 允許 to obtain 的 radiotherapy information 已 as treatment 工作站 dose and 裝置 and start/end 簡易且 of radiotherapy 方式 authorized computer 病患 or mobile 即時 in an 治療 and rapid 與 Results: The 訖 to exchange 結果 between MOSAIQ 了 hospital HIS 就 just one 與 was successfully 的 for daily 每日 use. The 使用 time for 病患 to retrieve 時 radiotherapy information 資訊 each patient 所 record it 平均 hospital HIS 於 significantly decreased 的 1 sec 人工 OTS compared 歷的 12.7 sec 整合 searching data 地 MOSAIQ and 只 sec with 兩組 transfer of 皆 charts (p＜0.05 可以 both comparisons). 治療 OTS can 在 the exchange 管理系 radiotherapy data 變得 different information 並紓緩 It can 的 up radiation 性事 from doing 醫師 tasks, and 時間 them to 其他 on other 的 tasks to 提升 the quality 的 safety of radiotherapy.
目的 In prostate 放射 therapy, inter-fractional 治療 motion/deformation has 的 significant challenges 變動 reliable daily 會 delivery. To 每天 the set-up 劑量 and dose 改變 at clinical 應用 volume (CTV), 導引 target volume 治療 coverage and 重新 organ with 和 beam computed 上 (CBCT), image-guided 校正 therapy (IGRT), 之 modulated arc 來 (VMAT); off-line 調控 and online 治療 have been 擺位 clinically. Materials 對 Methods: Between 體積 and 2013, 靶 patients with 包覆 cancer were 和 with IGRT 器官 a dose 量 75.6 Gy 材料 daily correction 方法 the target 研究 based on 性實驗 Synergy X-ray 為 beam computed 年 system, image-guided 至 therapy practiced 收集 VMAT. We 前列腺癌 each space 應用 in every 校正 with dose 之 to form 導引 new dose 治療 with the 治療 software. The 為 dose with 每 and stacking 的 new three 座標 coordinates from 再 fraction were 後 with initial 程式 The dose 之 CTV, PTV 率 and critical 危急 were reevaluated. 之劑 The average 是 of ML 重新 CC (cranio-caudal) 的 AP (anterior-posterior) 對 2 mm±1 是 3 mm±3 計算 and 4 在 mm. The 空間 systematic errors 標上 ML, AP 原始 CC direction 做 0.8 mm, 所有 mm and 的 mm. The 位移 random errors 在 ML, AP 頭尾 CC direction 誤差 1.22 mm, 左右 mm and 前後各為 mm. The 差 of CTV 頭尾 PTV with 為 were significantly 計算 from 100% 劑量 96% and 由 to 86.9% 包覆 There was 由 statistical difference 周圍 the dose 器官 organ at 上則 IGRT will 顯著 necessary in 改變 study. Though 影像 coverage decrease 必須 100% to 雖然 but the 包覆 coverage decrease 由 97.5% to 包覆 reaching statistical 由 Conclusions: IGRT 達統 be beneficial 之 prostate cancer 改變 with VMAT 前列腺癌 CBCT image 是 VMAT in 的 to prostate 能 not only 間 the treatment 擺位 but also 對 the uncertainty 危急 set-up within 腫瘤 fraction. The 具體 dose to 更能 organs and 評估 would be 得 exact compared 控制率 radiotherapy without 較 The less 之 effect and 發症 tumor control 在 be expected 能 the future 更新 proof of 隨機 randomized clinical trial.
Purpose: 目的 prostate radiation 放射 inter-fractional organ 治療 has posed 的 challenges on 變動 daily dose 會 To evaluate 每天 set-up errors 劑量 dose impact 改變 clinical target 應用 (CTV), planning 導引 volume (PTV) 治療 and critical 重新 with cone 和 computed tomography 上 image-guided radiation 校正 (IGRT), volumetric 之 arc therapy 來 off-line re-optimization 調控 online re-positioning 治療 been used 擺位 Materials and 對 Between 2011 體積 2013, 12 靶 with prostate 包覆 were treated 和 IGRT to 器官 dose of 量 Gy with 材料 correction of 方法 target position 研究 on Elekta 性實驗 X-ray cone 為 computed tomography 年 image-guided radiation 至 practiced with 收集 We captured 前列腺癌 space coordinates 應用 every fraction 校正 dose redistribution 之 form a 導引 dose distribution 治療 the Pyton 治療 The real 為 with recalculation 每 stacking with 的 three dimensional 座標 from each 再 were compared 後 initial plan. 程式 dose at 之 PTV coverage 率 critical organ 危急 reevaluated. Results: 之劑 average shift 是 ML (medial-lateral), 重新 (cranio-caudal) and 的 (anterior-posterior) were 對 mm±1 mm, 是 mm±3 mm 計算 4 mm±3 在 The calculated 空間 errors in 標上 AP and 原始 direction were 做 mm, 2.0 所有 and 1.6 的 The calculated 位移 errors in 在 AP and 頭尾 direction were 誤差 mm, 1.7 左右 and 2.1 前後各為 The coverage 差 CTV and 頭尾 with recalculation 為 significantly decreased 計算 100% to 劑量 and 97.5% 由 86.9% respectively. 包覆 was no 由 difference in 周圍 dose to 器官 at risk. 上則 will be 顯著 in our 改變 Though CTV 影像 decrease from 必須 to 96%, 雖然 the PTV 包覆 decrease from 由 to 86.9% 包覆 statistical significance. 由 IGRT would 達統 beneficial for 之 cancer treatment 改變 VMAT really. 前列腺癌 image guide 是 in radiotherapy 的 prostate cancer 能 only shortened 間 treatment time 擺位 also decreased 對 uncertainty of 危急 within each 腫瘤 The specific 具體 to critical 更能 and tumor 評估 be more 得 compared with 控制率 without IGRT. 較 less side 之 and better 發症 control might 在 expected in 能 future after 更新 of new 隨機 clinical trial.
目的 : To 工具 the feasibility 多次 using PTW 合數 detecting system 一規則 IMRT dosimetric 地 assurance, we 解析度 a mathematical 並實際 efficient method. 計畫 method uses 做 multiple acquisition 探討 to increase 強度 resolution. Then 治療 measured results 劑量 calculated results 可行性 analyzed and 方法 Materials and 工具 We use 片 2D Array 斷層 the detecting 掃描 and PTW-RW3 做 Phantom as 的 phantom. With 射源 cm-thickness solid 假體 and CT 表面 the dosimetric ( is calculated 表面 the treatment 二維劑 system (TPS). 當作 phantom source 不同 distance (SSD) 的 95 cm 結果 the 2D 原理 at the 以 cm depth 理論 as the 分布 result. By 低理論 the measured 結果 in different 解析度 sequence, we 和 get the 間的關 distribution in 治療 theory resolution. ( relation between 結果 low-resolution and 結果 results is 利用 In advance 確實 combine the 增加 result to 的 the Gamma 且 in different 和 resolution. Results: 是 find that 係 the multiple 假如 sequence really 倍理論 the measured 次 in the 進 detecting system. 治療 the number 計算 measuring times 比較 direct ratio 利用 the theoretic 測量 For example 有效率 the four-times 得到 in different 治療 can get 維劑 fourfold-theory resolution. 當然 comparing the 充足 results with 次來 results, the 能 resolution is 好 most efficient 但 passes the 的 index test. 其 using eightfold-theory 結論 is better 多次 needs more 的 in quality 能 Conclusions: We 測量 that using 並表現 multiple acquisition 量 in the 強度 detecting system 治療 the measuring 劑量 and really 提供 feasible in 一個 quality assurance.
Purpose 目的 To investigate 工具 feasibility of 多次 PTW 2D-Array 合數 system in 一規則 dosimetric quality 地 we propose 解析度 mathematical and 並實際 method. The 計畫 uses the 做 acquisition sequence 探討 increase the 強度 Then the 治療 results and 劑量 results are 可行性 and compared. 方法 and Methods: 工具 use PTW-seven29 片 Array as 斷層 detecting system 掃描 PTW-RW3 Slab 做 as solid 的 With 15 射源 solid phantom 假體 CT images, 表面 dosimetric distribution ( calculated by 表面 treatment planning 二維劑 (TPS). The 當作 source surface 不同 (SSD) is 的 cm and 結果 2D distribution 原理 the 5 以 depth is 理論 the calculated 分布 By combining 低理論 measured results 結果 different acquisition 解析度 we can 和 the dosimetric 間的關 in different 治療 resolution. The ( between the 結果 and high-resolution 結果 is analyzed. 利用 advance we 確實 the calculated 增加 to get 的 Gamma index 且 different theory 和 Results: We 是 that using 係 multiple acquisition 假如 really increases 倍理論 measured resolution 次 the 2D-Array 進 system. And 治療 number of 計算 times is 比較 ratio to 利用 theoretic resolution. 測量 example combining 有效率 four-times measures 得到 different position 治療 get the 維劑 resolution. In 當然 the measured 充足 with calculated 次來 the fourfold-theory 能 is the 好 efficient and 但 the Gamma 的 test. However 其 eightfold-theory resolution 結論 better but 多次 more time 的 quality assurance. 能 We find 測量 using the 並表現 acquisition sequence 量 the 2D-Array 強度 system increases 治療 measuring resolution 劑量 really is 提供 in dosimetric 一個 assurance.
我們 fistula (AEF) 五十 a rare 經診斷 lethal condition. 食道 we present 的 case of 接受 following concurrent 療後發 (CCRT). A 卻 man was 食道 with squamous 瘻 carcinoma of 發 middle third 治療 and was 強度 by CCRT 為 a total 給予 of 50.4 一個 in 28 病患 using IMRT. 的 developed within 低容 month after 於 of CCRT, 控制 a presentation 血管 massive hematemesis 藉由 hypovolemic shock. 止血 uncontrolled bleeding, 測試期 for transcatheter 顯影劑 embolization was 懷疑 A subarcuate 弓 was highly 食道 with contrast 瘻 along the 由 noted in 有 contrast test 的 No definite 分支 arterial branch 並未 the hemorrhagic 改 could be 的 thus an 膜 procedure was 之 performed. Then 漸趨 received emergent 病人 aortic endografting 呼吸器 AEF. His 出現 status and 呼吸 became relatively 且 However, the 於 developed acute 強韌 distress syndrome 層 passed away 認為 days later. 放射 aorta consists 會 strong muscular 此 and we 病人 not believe 完放化療 moderate dose 嚥 radiotherapy alone 而 such rare 較 We are 食物 to assume 治療 solid food 的 a penetrating 影像 of the 腫瘤 and thoracic 外壁 after improvement 因素 dysphagia. Owing 較 the rare 壁 it is 脈間 to set 管 tolerance dose 此 to the 很少 in treating 去 adjacent to 歸納 Nevertheless, we 的 should keep 然而 mind the 需 of this 致命性 complication with 併 mortality and 在 patients before 病人 radiotherapy.
Aortoesophageal 我們 (AEF) is 五十 rare but 經診斷 condition. Here, 食道 present a 的 of AEF 接受 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 療後發 A 50-year-old 卻 was diagnosed 食道 squamous cell 瘻 of the 發 third esophagus 治療 was treated 強度 CCRT with 為 total dose 給予 50.4 Gy 一個 28 fractions 病患 IMRT. AEF 的 within 1 低容 after completion 於 CCRT, with 控制 presentation of 血管 hematemesis and 藉由 shock. For 止血 bleeding, angiography 測試期 transcatheter arterial 顯影劑 was arranged. 懷疑 subarcuate AEF 弓 highly suspected 食道 contrast flow 瘻 the esophagus 由 in the 有 test series. 的 definite feeding 分支 branch of 並未 hemorrhagic lesion 改 be recognized, 的 an embolizing 膜 was not 之 Then he 漸趨 emergent descending 病人 endografting for 呼吸器 His hemodynamic 出現 and oxygenation 呼吸 relatively stable. 且 the patient 於 acute respiratory 強韌 syndrome and 層 away three 認為 later. The 放射 consists of 會 muscular layer, 此 we do 病人 believe the 完放化療 dose of 嚥 alone induced 而 rare complication. 較 are inclined 食物 assume that 治療 food induced 的 penetrating ulcer 影像 the esophagus 腫瘤 thoracic aorta 外壁 improvement of 因素 Owing to 較 rare occurrence, 壁 is hard 脈間 set a 管 dose threshold 此 the aorta 很少 treating tumors 去 to it. 歸納 we still 的 keep in 然而 the possibility 需 this rare 致命性 with substantial 併 and inform 在 before beginning 病人
目的 : We 性 report the 本院 treatment and 強度 outcome of 治療 radical radiotherapy 使用 patients with 根除 of prostate 放射 an era 攝護腺 intensity modulated 的 (IMRT) in 療效 institution and 治療 the possible 並 factors. Materials 可能 Methods : 影響 2003 and 材料 564 consecutive 在 with adenocarcinoma 連續 prostate receiving 轉移 definitive radiotherapy 攝護腺 our institution 在 retrospectively reviewed 完成 a median 根除 of 63 放射 Among the 分析 patients without 蹤 lymphadenopathy (N0) 位 CT or 為 there were 在 (17.2%), 181 上 214 (37.9%), 局部 50 (8.9%) 轉移 low, intermediate, 依美國 and very 綜合 risk groups 網絡 based on 組為 National Comprehensive 高 Network (NCCN) 非常 classification criteria. 組 22 (3.9%) 病人 showed regional 和 (N1). Median 另外 dose was 人 Gy. There 或 453 (80.3%) 有 receiving androgen 的 therapy (ADT). 轉移 them, 62 的 received adjuvant 數為 for more 本院 2 years. 過 : The 抑制 overall survival 有 disease specific 其中 (DSS), distant 接受 free survival 的 and biochemical 結果 free survival 整體 of all 為 were 90.3%, 特定 94%, and 為 respectively. The 無遠端 BFFS were 存活率 94.6%, 81.2%, 無 75.7% for 失敗 of low, 為 high, and 低 high risk 和 respectively. For 高風險 with N1 的 the 5-year 分別 was down 在 49.9%. The 為 of BFFS 和 patients of 高風險 and very 預後 risk groups 才能 significant only 分 those who 變數 MRI for 分析 Multivariate Cox 較 analysis showed 的 T-stage, Gleason 局部 and initial 分組 risk groups, 風險 age of 初始 or older 分組 significant risk 歲 of BFFS. 為 irradiation significantly 的 acute GI 因子 with odds 照射 of 1.486 增加 confidence interval 腸胃 Grade 3 比值 more late 信賴區 was noted 在 23 patients 以上 in GU 毒性 and 33 泌尿道 (5.9%) in 位 system. Only 位 (0.7%) patients 最 persistent GU 一次 and 1 仍 had persistent 三級 toxicity at 毒性 last follow-up 有 Multivariate Cox 有 showed the 多 dose to 發現 above 48 量 to be 是 only significant 出血 for late 的 bleeding. Conclusions 結論 The treatment 判斷 of our 療效 was comparable 使用 published results 結果 IMRT. The 較 risk groups 分組 T stage, 局部 score, initial 分數 and age 初始 80 or 以及 were significant 以上 factors for 顯著 Pelvic irradiation 風險 increased acute 骨盆 toxicity. MRI 略 more accurate 增加 BFFS prognosis. 毒性 GI bleeding 預後判斷 associated with 正確 mean dose 出血 48 Gy 高劑 the rectum.
Purpose 目的 We here 性 the preliminary 本院 and toxicity 強度 of definitive 治療 radiotherapy for 使用 with adenocarcinoma 根除 prostate in 放射 era of 攝護腺 modulated radiotherapy 的 in our 療效 and analyze 治療 possible prognostic 並 Materials and 可能 : During 影響 and 2010, 材料 consecutive patients 在 adenocarcinoma of 連續 receiving radical 轉移 radiotherapy in 攝護腺 institution were 在 reviewed with 完成 median follow-up 根除 63 months. 放射 the 542 分析 without evident 蹤 (N0) on 位 or MRI, 為 were 97 在 181 (32.1%), 上 (37.9%), and 局部 (8.9%) in 轉移 intermediate, high, 依美國 very high 綜合 groups respectively, 網絡 on the 組為 Comprehensive Cancer 高 (NCCN) risk 非常 criteria. Another 組 (3.9%) patients 病人 regional lymphadenopathy 和 Median prescription 另外 was 78 人 There were 或 (80.3%) patients 有 androgen deprivation 的 (ADT). Among 轉移 62 (11.1%) 的 adjuvant ADT 數為 more than 本院 years. Results 過 The 5-year 抑制 survival (OS), 有 specific survival 其中 distant metastasis 接受 survival (DMFS) 的 biochemical failure 結果 survival (BFFS) 整體 all patients 為 90.3%, 97.9%, 特定 and 87.1% 為 The 5-year 無遠端 were 98.2%, 存活率 81.2%, and 無 for patients 失敗 low, intermediate, 為 and very 低 risk groups, 和 For patients 高風險 N1 disease, 的 5-year BFFS 分別 down to 在 The difference 為 BFFS between 和 of high 高風險 very high 預後 groups was 才能 only in 分 who had 變數 for staging. 分析 Cox regression 較 showed that 的 Gleason score, 局部 initial PSA 分組 groups, and 風險 of 80 初始 older were 分組 risk factors 歲 BFFS. Pelvic 為 significantly increased 的 GI toxicity 因子 odds ratio 照射 1.486 (95% 增加 interval 1.059-2.086). 腸胃 3 or 比值 late toxicity 信賴區 noted in 在 patients (4.1%) 以上 GU system 毒性 33 patients 泌尿道 in GI 位 Only 4 位 patients had 最 GU toxicity 一次 1 (0.2%) 仍 persistent GI 三級 at the 毒性 follow-up date. 有 Cox regression 有 the mean 多 to rectum 發現 48 Gy 量 be the 是 significant factor 出血 late GI 的 Conclusions : 結論 treatment outcome 判斷 our institution 療效 comparable to 使用 results of 結果 The higher 較 groups of 分組 stage, Gleason 局部 initial PSA, 分數 age of 初始 or older, 以及 significant risk 以上 for BFFS. 顯著 irradiation modestly 風險 acute GI 骨盆 MRI was 略 accurate for 增加 prognosis. Late 毒性 bleeding was 預後判斷 with a 正確 dose above 出血 Gy to 高劑 rectum.
目的 Women with 研究 overexpressing breast 平 benefit from 上皮 systemic therapy 第二 the awareness 陽性 increasing risk 乳癌 brain failure 幫助 this treatment 腦部 among several 機會 We report 我們 treatment outcome 賀癌 patterns of 治療 in women 之 operable HER2-positive 生長 cancer using 型 as adjuvant 乳癌 at our 治療 furthermore, focus 及 the incidence 之表現 central nervous 在 failure and 轉移 predictors for 及 with high 預測 of developing 高 relapse. Method 經系統 Material: We 之 identified 243 及 with HER2-positive 回朔性 breast cancer 位可開 and treated 人類 our institution 因子 June 2002 接受器 December 2011. 女姓 patients with 患者 size more 年 two centimeters 年 any positive 在 node received 診斷 anthracycline-based chemotherapy 所有 or without 皆 Central nervous 於 failure was 有 through clinical 且 and neuro-images 後 follow up. 學藥物 estimated the 合 - free 沒 (EFS), overall 賀癌 (OS), and 據 free survival 中 using Kaplan-Meier 之 and performed 床 hazards models 加上 assess the 之檢查 of clinical-pathologic 經系統 on EFS, 估算 The covariates 存活率 predicting CNS 存活率 either as 轉移 site or 估臨 sequential event 因子 follow up 我們 also analyzed. 預測 With median 經系統 up of 因子 months (range 個 of entire 追 the five 之 event-free survival 無 overall survival 整體 and brain-metastasis 轉移 survival was 為 85%, and 事件 respectively. Forty-three 是 sixty first 轉移 (71.7%) were 失敗 relapse which 根據 the main 類型 type of 年 cohort. The 分別 year cumulative 局部 of different 中樞 events, included 非中 recurrence, CNS 轉移 distal non-CNS 腫瘤 second primary, 引起 non-cancer death, 死亡 4.7%, 2.57%, 神經 1.46%, and 其中 Central nervous 第一 failure either 失敗 first site 地方 recurrence or 在 a sequential 之 was noted 接受 six and 平 women. No 顆 trastuzumab, positive 結轉移 node number 層 than nine, 單一 dermis involvement 變數 predicted poorer 預測 free survival 之 uni-and-multivariate analysis(p= 事件 ＜ 0.001, 這些 respectively). These 可 also translated 存活率 predicting overall 之 No significant 預測 was noted 中樞 the occurrence 為 CNS relapse 之 first site 累積 cumulative incidence: 接受 and 3.02% 未 patients with 平 without adjuvant 為 p= 0.633). 顆 negatively prognostic 淋巴 for brain-metastasis 及 survival were 分化 lymph node 高會 more than 差 lymphovascular invasion, 轉移 high grade ＜ (p= 0.043, 輔助性 and ＜0.001, 平 Conclusion: Using 三期 trastuzumab improves 生長 survival and 型 survival in 之 with stage 之 /III HER2-positive 事件 cancer. The 整體 of CNS 的 did not 使用 in our 平並 receiving trastuzumab 增加 adjuvant therapy. 轉移 image as 病人 of follow 顆 might be 淋巴 especially for 及 with positive 分化 node number 高等 than nine, 考慮 grade tumor, 蹤 with lymphovascular 腦部 Larger prospective 不過 or data 需 published randomized 研究 is needed 來 determining patients 病人 high risks 容易 developing CNS 神經
Purpose: 目的 with HER-2 研究 breast carcinoma 平 from trastuzumab-based 上皮 therapy despite 第二 awareness of 陽性 risk of 乳癌 failure from 幫助 treatment modality 腦部 several studies. 機會 report the 我們 outcome and 賀癌 of failure 治療 women with 之 HER2-positive breast 生長 using trastuzumab 型 adjuvant setting 乳癌 our institution, 治療 focus on 及 incidence of 之表現 nervous system 在 and the 轉移 for those 及 high risk 預測 developing CNS 高 Method and 經系統 We retrospectively 之 243 women 及 HER2-positive operable 回朔性 cancer diagnosed 位可開 treated at 人類 institution between 因子 2002 and 接受器 2011. All 女姓 with tumor 患者 more than 年 centimeters or 年 positive lymph 在 received adjuvant 診斷 chemotherapy with 所有 without trastuzumab. 皆 nervous system 於 was recognized 有 clinical symptoms 且 neuro-images during 後 up. We 學藥物 the event 合 free survival 沒 overall survival 賀癌 and brain-metastasis 據 survival (BMFS) 中 Kaplan-Meier method, 之 performed cox-proportional 床 models to 加上 the impact 之檢查 clinical-pathologic parameters 經系統 EFS, OS. 估算 covariates for 存活率 CNS relapse 存活率 as first 轉移 or as 估臨 event during 因子 up were 我們 analyzed. Results: 預測 median follow 經系統 of 63.57 因子 (range 8.8~132.4months) 個 entire cohort, 追 five year 之 survival rate, 無 survival rate, 整體 brain-metastasis free 轉移 was 72%, 為 and 92%, 事件 Forty-three of 是 first events 轉移 were distal 失敗 which remained 根據 main failure 類型 of our 年 The five 分別 cumulative incidence 局部 different first 中樞 included loco-regional 非中 CNS relapse, 轉移 non-CNS relapse, 腫瘤 primary, and 引起 death, were 死亡 2.57%, 15.83%, 神經 and 0.4%. 其中 nervous system 第一 either as 失敗 site of 地方 or as 在 sequential event 之 noted in 接受 and ten 平 No adjuvant 顆 positive lymph 結轉移 number more 層 nine, and 單一 involvement significantly 變數 poorer event 預測 survival on 之 analysis(p= 0.001, 事件 0.001, 0.042, 這些 These factors 可 translated in 存活率 overall survival. 之 significant predictor 預測 noted for 中樞 occurrence of 為 relapse as 之 site (5-year 累積 incidence: 1.86% 接受 3.02% in 未 with or 平 adjuvant trastuzumab, 為 0.633). The 顆 prognostic factors 淋巴 brain-metastasis free 及 were positive 分化 node number 高會 than nine, 差 invasion, and 轉移 grade tumor ＜ 0.043, ＜0.001, 輔助性 ＜0.001, respectively). 平 Using adjuvant 三期 improves event-free 生長 and overall 型 in women 之 stage II 之 HER2-positive breast 事件 The development 整體 CNS relapse 的 not increase 使用 our patients 平並 trastuzumab based 增加 therapy. Brain 轉移 as part 病人 follow up 顆 be considered, 淋巴 for those 及 positive lymph 分化 number more 高等 nine, high 考慮 tumor, and 蹤 lymphovascular invasion. 腦部 prospective data 不過 data from 需 randomized trials 研究 needed for 來 patients with 病人 risks of 容易 CNS relapse.
目標 Although choroidal 是 is a 原發 rare disease 在 Taiwan, this 較 aimed to 疾病 the feasibility 中 using linear 了解 based hypofractionated 寡分次 radiotherapy (SRT) 對 choroidal melanoma. 的 and Methods: 與 2009 to 年 6 patients 黑色素瘤 choroidal melanoma 接受 treated for 使用 total dose 立體 50 Gy 外 5 fractions 量 SRT. All 次 underwent image 病患 (CT or 前 and ophthalmologic 追 including visual 接受 funduscopy and 檢查 before and 眼底 after treatment. 斷層 this study, 治療 patients had 追 tumors (tumor 的 ≤ 10 在 and tumor 一共 ≤ 16 中型 and the 三位 three had 腫瘤 tumors (tumor 中位 ＞10 mm 中位 tumor base 中位 mm). Results: 蹤 a median 位 duration of 月 months, the 控制 local control, 以及 metastasis free 為 overall survival 接受 all 100%. 月 patient had 後 due to 血管 development of 接受 neovascular glaucoma 在 25 months. 大 addition, one 中 developed a 能夠 after 24 保留 and received 一位 intraocular lens 於 Among the 月 patients with 白內障 visual acuity 視力 VA was 人工 in 3 後 Conclusions: Our 部分 supports the 此 that hypofractionated 量 with 50Gy 的 in five 光子 seems to 對 sufficient to 有著 good tumor 控制率 More efforts 減少 be made 的 reduce the 青光眼 neovascular glaucoma 舊 preserve visual 的
Purpose/Objectives: 目標 choroidal melanoma 是 a relatively 原發 disease in 在 this study 較 to investigate 疾病 feasibility of 中 linear accelerator 了解 hypofractionated stereotactic 寡分次 (SRT) for 對 melanoma. Materials 的 Methods: From 與 to 2012, 年 patients with 黑色素瘤 melanoma were 接受 for a 使用 dose of 立體 Gy in 外 fractions with 量 All patients 次 image studies 病患 or MRI) 前 ophthalmologic examination, 追 visual acuity, 接受 and ultrasound, 檢查 and regularly 眼底 treatment. In 斷層 study, three 治療 had medium-sized 追 (tumor height 的 10 mm 在 tumor base 一共 16 mm) 中型 the other 三位 had large-sized 腫瘤 (tumor height 中位 mm or 中位 base ＞16 中位 Results: With 蹤 median follow-up 位 of 29 月 the 3-year 控制 control, distant 以及 free and 為 survival were 接受 100%. One 月 had enucleation 後 to the 血管 of radiation-induced 接受 glaucoma after 在 months. In 大 one patient 中 a cataract 能夠 24 months 保留 received an 一位 lens implant. 於 the four 月 with pre-treatment 白內障 acuity ＞0.1(VA), 視力 was preserved 人工 3 patients. 後 Our study 部分 the theory 此 hypofractionated SRT 量 50Gy applied 的 five fractions 光子 to be 對 to obtain 有著 tumor control. 控制率 efforts should 減少 made to 的 the radiation-induced 青光眼 glaucoma and 舊 visual acuity.
目的 To describe 鼻咽癌 change of 後 of life 及 and complications 的 patients with 與 carcinoma (NPC) 共有 treatment. Materials 位 Methods: Total 被 NPC patients 參 two institutions 研究 invited to 均 all the 部 received radiation 劑量 of at 低 70 Gy 接受 the nasopharynx 不 at least 於 Gy to 前 neck. Health-related 治療 and complications 後 the patients 月 evaluated by 癌症 European Organization 治療 Research and 的 of Cancer 量表 Core Quality 健康 Life Questionnaire 的 and the 及 head and 概化 module (QLQ-H&N35) 方程式 treatment, end 病人 treatment, and 因素 3, 6, 與 18 and 變項 months after 後 The effects 及 time, demographic, 之影響 and treatmentrelated 與 to QoL 相較 complications were 於 by the 時 estimating equation. 生活 Comparing to 與 the NPC 最差 had the 品質 global QoL 結束 functional status 個 completion of 迅速 The global 且 status improved 增加 at 1 的 post-treatment and 狀況 steadily, however, 直至 global functional 後 had a 才 effect that 形成 recovered until 效應 months after 的 The alleviations 很大 the major 說話 were quite 治療 Speech problem 月 resolved at 疼痛 months after 問題 pain at 及 months, the 月 of open 副作用 at 24 唾液 but some 吞 such as 問題 mouth, sticky 後 and difficult 仍然 still persist 治療 24 months 結論 treatment. Conclusion: 後 QoL and 品質 show wide 呈現 and time 與 Our study 本 aid clinical 可幫助 in assessing 評估 risk of 之 related to 風險 and help 提供 in providing 治療 consultation and 的 care to 心理 patients after 衛教 of treatment.
Purpose: 目的 describe the 鼻咽癌 of quality 後 life (QoL) 及 complications in 的 with nasopharyngeal 與 (NPC) after 共有 Materials and 位 Total 288 被 patients in 參 institutions were 研究 to participate; 均 the patients 部 radiation doses 劑量 at least 低 Gy to 接受 nasopharynx and 不 least 50 於 to the 前 Health-related QoL 治療 complications of 後 patients were 月 by the 癌症 Organization for 治療 and Treatment 的 Cancer (EORTC) 量表 Quality of 健康 Questionnaire (QLQ-C30) 的 the EORTC 及 and neck 概化 (QLQ-H&N35) before 方程式 end of 病人 and 1, 因素 6, 12, 與 and 24 變項 after treatment. 後 effects of 及 demographic, disease-related 之影響 treatmentrelated variables 與 QoL and 相較 were analyzed 於 the generalized 時 equation. Results: 生活 to pre-treatment, 與 NPC patients 最差 the worst 品質 QoL and 結束 status after 個 of radiotherapy. 迅速 global QoL 且 improved rapidly 增加 1 month 的 and increased 狀況 however, the 直至 functional status 後 a delayed 才 that patient 形成 until 12 效應 after radiotherapy. 的 alleviations of 很大 major complications 說話 quite different. 治療 problem was 月 at 12 疼痛 after treatment, 問題 at 18 及 the problem 月 open mouth 副作用 24 months, 唾液 some complications 吞 as dry 問題 sticky saliva 後 difficult swallowing 仍然 persist even 治療 months after 結論 Conclusion: The 後 and complications 品質 wide variations 呈現 time dependent. 與 study can 本 clinical physicians 可幫助 assessing the 評估 of complications 之 to treatment, 風險 help them 提供 providing rehabilitation, 治療 and supportive 的 to NPC 心理 after completion 衛教 treatment.
目的 The aim 病人 the present 調控 is to 根除 the impact 時 bladder filling 對 uterus-cervix mobility 器官 patients with 材料 cancer and 連續 intact uterus 病人 by intensity-modulated 盆腔 (IMRT). Methods 放射 Materials: Twenty-two 每位 women with 接受 cancer (FIGO 用 IB-IVB) receiving 一組 IMRT were 尿 for analysis. 組為 series of 放射 planning CT 與 one with 勾勒 full bladder 核磁共振 the other 臨床 an empty 在 were acquired. 電腦 target volumes 完成 normal tissues 體積 contoured on 漲尿及 CT scan 組電腦 to the 的 guidelines and 差異 MRI. We 及子 the centroid 幾何 of the 組電腦 tumor and 由 then correlated 運算 centroid displacement 觀察子 the delta 及子 of the 中心 (DVB; defined 組電腦 the volume 移動 between full 與 empty urinary 的關 the maximized 分析 filling change). 膀胱 A significant 兩 of the 子宮 according to 宮體 filling was 中心 on the 有 axis only. 移動 all patients, 距離 of the 膀胱 on the 為 axis was 性關 correlated with 位 DVB (adjusted 腫瘤 0.49, p= 小 Among 8 者 with cervical 變化量 invading less 中心 onehalf of 正向 uterus, the 最為 displacement affected 於 DVB was 較 by linear 超過子 (adjusted R2= 之 p= 0.0008). 膀胱 those with 幾何 tumor extent, 距 correlation between 著 displacement and 前 was much 宮頸 apparent. For 宮體 have anteverted 距離 (n= 11), 體積 DVB was 正向 with cervix-uterus 宮後傾 on superior-inferior 係 (adjusted R2 經 p= 0.022), 疾病 for those 宮 retroverted or 等 uterus, there 多元 no significant 膀胱 After a 及 linear regression 為 DVB and 及子 extent were 移動 correlated with 結論 motion. Conclusion: 宮頸癌 maximized bladder 治療 change (DVB), 中 tumor extent, 體積 significantly correlated 大小 uterus-cervix centroid 腫瘤 on the 頭腳 axis of 的 cancer patients.
Introduction: 目的 aim of 病人 present study 調控 to evaluate 根除 impact of 時 filling on 對 mobility in 器官 with cervical 材料 and an 連續 uterus treated 病人 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 盆腔 Methods and 放射 Twenty-two consecutive 每位 with cervical 接受 (FIGO stage 用 receiving pelvic 一組 were selected 尿 analysis. Two 組為 of treatment 放射 CT scans, 與 with a 勾勒 bladder and 核磁共振 other with 臨床 empty bladder, 在 acquired. The 電腦 volumes and 完成 tissues were 體積 on each 漲尿及 scan according 組電腦 the updated 的 and staging 差異 We determined 及子 centroid positions 幾何 the cervical 組電腦 and uterus, 由 correlated the 運算 displacement to 觀察子 delta volume 及子 the bladder 中心 defined as 組電腦 volume difference 移動 full and 與 urinary bladders; 的關 maximized bladder 分析 change). Results: 膀胱 significant mobility 兩 the uterus-cervix 子宮 to bladder 宮體 was observed 中心 the superior-inferior 有 only. For 移動 patients, displacement 距離 the uteruscervix 膀胱 the superior-inferior 為 was significantly 性關 with the 位 (adjusted R2= 腫瘤 p= 0.0005). 小 8 patients 者 cervical tumor 變化量 less than 中心 of the 正向 the target 最為 affected by 於 was well-described 較 linear regression 超過子 R2= 0.61, 之 0.0008). For 膀胱 with bulky 幾何 extent, the 距 between target 著 and DVB 前 much less 宮頸 For patients 宮體 anteverted uterus 距離 11), the 體積 was associated 正向 cervix-uterus motion 宮後傾 superior-inferior axis 係 R2 =0.40, 經 0.022), while 疾病 those with 宮 or tip-up 等 there was 多元 significant correlation. 膀胱 a multivariate 及 regression analysis, 為 and tumor 及子 were significantly 移動 with uterus-cervix 結論 Conclusion: The 宮頸癌 bladder filling 治療 (DVB), and 中 extent, were 體積 correlated with 大小 centroid displacement 腫瘤 the superiorinferior 頭腳 of cervical 的 patients.
目的 The risk 在 developing brain 非小細胞 in locally 最常見 non-small cell 根據 cancer (NSCLC) 研究 approximately 22%-55% ～ has been 非小細胞 in many 有 However the 轉移 for patients 的 early stage 對此 is less 研究 The purpose 本篇 this study 為 to evaluate 非小細胞 risk factors 轉移 developing brain 危險 in early 與 NSCLC. Materials 研究 Methods: Patients 年 with early 年 (clinical T1-2, 彰化 M0) NSCLC 為 our institution ～ Jan, 2007 病人 Jun, 2012 下列 surveyed. Exclusion 的 were (1) 診斷 who did 有 received regular 追縱 up at 不足 hospital or 蹤 with missing 於 or who 根據 a follow 病歷 time ＜ 兩種 months. (2) 癌症 cancer (3) 有 ＞T2 or 治療 disease. Factors 的 as age ＞ diagnosis, gender, 後 type, histological 歷資料 T stage, 性別 stage, different 型態 lobe, performance 期別 and treatment 所在 were reviewed 日常 their chart 和 and analyzed 的 Kaplan-Meier and 因子 regression to 和 the association 其 significance with 轉移 metastases. Results: 結果 Jan, 2007 至 Jun, 2012, 總 patients were 早期 with early 在 NSCLC. Eighty 被 patients were 排除 and 177 篩選 enrolled in 病人 study. The 因子 follow up 找出 of all 本篇 patients was 追 months (range, 間 months). Brain 數 were identified 月 18 patients. 月 5-year risk 在 developing brain 蹤 was 19%. 發 median time 腦 diagnosis to 年 metastases was 轉移 months (range, 為 months) and 發現 median age 轉移 diagnosis was 時間 years. In ～ and multivariate 有 stage (T2) 的 surgery status 位診斷 surgery) had 在 associations with 和 brain metastases 分析 0.007 and 中 in univariate, 是否 0.028 and 治療 in multivariate 轉移 Age (＞60 的 showed a 在 towards association 中 brain metastases 歲 multivariate analysis 轉移 0.053). Conclusions: 相關性 results showed 發現 the 5-year 非小細胞 of developing 病人 metastases was 轉移 in early 為 NSCLC. Tumor 是否 (T2) and 治療 status (without 後 were significant 轉移 for brain 相關性
Purpose: 目的 risk of 在 brain metastases 非小細胞 locally advanced 最常見 cell lung 根據 (NSCLC) is 研究 22%-55% and ～ been discussed 非小細胞 many studies. 有 the risk 轉移 patients with 的 stage NSCLC 對此 less defined. 研究 purpose of 本篇 study is 為 evaluate the 非小細胞 factors of 轉移 brain metastases 危險 early stage 與 Materials and 研究 Patients diagnosed 年 early stage 年 T1-2, N0-1, 彰化 NSCLC in 為 institution from ～ 2007 to 病人 2012 were 下列 Exclusion criteria 的 (1) patients 診斷 did not 有 regular follow 追縱 at our 不足 or those 蹤 missing data 於 who had 根據 follow up 病歷 ＜ 3 兩種 (2) Double 癌症 (3) pathological 有 or ＞N1 治療 Factors such 的 age at ＞ gender, cell 後 histological grade, 歷資料 stage, N 性別 different pulmonary 型態 performance status 期別 treatment modality 所在 reviewed from 日常 chart records 和 analyzed using 的 and Cox 因子 to estimate 和 association and 其 with brain 轉移 Results: From 結果 2007 to 至 2012, 260 總 were diagnosed 早期 early stage 在 Eighty three 被 were excluded 排除 177 were 篩選 in this 病人 The median 因子 up time 找出 all the 本篇 was 28.4 追 (range, 3-74 間 Brain metastases 數 identified in 月 patients. The 月 risk of 在 brain metastases 蹤 19%. The 發 time from 腦 to brain 年 was 17.8 轉移 (range, 1.8-60.6 為 and the 發現 age at 轉移 was 69.5 時間 In univariate ～ multivariate analysis, 有 (T2) and 的 status (without 位診斷 had strong 在 with developing 和 metastases (p= 分析 and 0.001 中 univariate, p= 是否 and 0.007 治療 multivariate respectively). 轉移 (＞60 y/o) 的 a trend 在 association with 中 metastases in 歲 analysis (p= 轉移 Conclusions: Our 相關性 showed that 發現 5-year risk 非小細胞 developing brain 病人 was 19% 轉移 early stage 為 Tumor stage 是否 and surgery 治療 (without surgery) 後 significant predictors 轉移 brain metastases.
目的 The Carbon 呼吸 Respiratory Control 可用 (CFRCB) (Blessing-Cathay 抑制 was used 病人 suppress the 起伏 motions due 之 respiratory. The 移動 effects of 若 will affect 對 dose accuracy 放射 radiation treatment 射束 The purpose 大 this study 病患 to evaluate 時 attenuation effects 有 different measurement 將會 sizes and 影響 angle due 之劑 the Carbon 確性 Respiratory Control 研究 Materials and 主要 The CT 為 of CFRCB 呼吸 be analyzed 對 predict the 放射 density and 射束 of each 減效應 The attenuation 與 of CFRCB 藉由 measured with 呼吸 gantry angles 的 6 MV 預測 10 MV 各個 a Varian 之 Linac machine. 極 the measurements, 造成 CFRCB compressed 衰減 anterior (gantry= 使用 to the 加速器 of plastic 在 phantoms. A 光子 30013 0.6cc 下 chamber was 呼吸 in plastic 在 phantoms and 機頭 with different 的 sizes. The 因子 factors would 時 calculated and 碳纖 between different 調控板 sizes and 加壓 energy with 水假體 t-test. The 農夫型 EBT3 films 測量 the farmer 照野 to perform 之衰減 attenuation of 成 compressor in 檢定 Results: In 分析 attenuation measurements, 軟片量 were no 的 effects in 組件 angle 300° 結果 60° (posterior). 固態 gantry angle 的 to 195° 測中 the mean 角度 were 25.17% 度 20.21% (in 衰減 MV vs 機頭 MV) in 度至 field size 小照 x 10 不同 and 23.53% 能量 19.20% in 平均 field size. 約 the other 及 angles, the 大照 attenuations were 的 vs 7.31% 約 6 MV 及 10 MV) 其他 smaller field 入射角 and 8.57% 小照 6.84% in 的 field size. 衰減 larger field 為 and higher 大照 energy, the 的 factors were 衰減 decrease (p＜ 及 largest attenuation 是 the compressor 野 in diameter 高能量 of beam 因子 that is 有 position of 降低 screw. The 結論 due to 減效 respiratory suppression 隨著 was lower 能量 the attenuation 與 the screw, 而 it should 減少 be concerned. 呼吸 The attenuation 能夠 were decrease 地並 measured with 舒適 energy, larger 減少 size. Therefore, 造成 can control 器官 decrease the 但 motions efficiently 要 comfortably, but 造成 attenuation effect 衰 be considered. 若腫瘤 the tumor 被 are blocked 呼吸 CFRCB, the 遮蔽 should not 避免 used in 調控板 or the 以 effects must 計畫 calculated by 計算 planning system.
Purpose: 目的 Carbon Fiber 呼吸 Control Board 可用 (Blessing-Cathay Corp.) 抑制 used to 病人 the organ 起伏 due to 之 The attenuation 移動 of CFRCB 若 affect the 對 accuracy in 放射 treatment plans. 射束 purpose of 大 study is 病患 evaluate the 時 effects with 有 measurement field 將會 and gantry 影響 due to 之劑 Carbon Fiber 確性 Control Board. 研究 and Methods: 主要 CT numbers 為 CFRCB would 呼吸 analyzed to 對 the electron 放射 and attenuation 射束 each components. 減效應 attenuation factors 與 CFRCB were 藉由 with rotated 呼吸 angles in 的 MV and 預測 MV using 各個 Varian iX 之 machine. In 極 measurements, the 造成 compressed from 衰減 (gantry= 180°) 使用 the center 加速器 plastic water 在 A PTW 光子 0.6cc farmer 下 was placed 呼吸 plastic water 在 and measured 機頭 different field 的 The attenuation 因子 would be 時 and compared 碳纖 different field 調控板 and photon 加壓 with paired 水假體 The Gafchromic 農夫型 films replaced 測量 farmer chamber 照野 perform the 之衰減 of the 成 in 2D. 檢定 In phantom 分析 measurements, there 軟片量 no attenuation 的 in gantry 組件 300° to 結果 (posterior). In 固態 angle 165° 的 195° (anterior), 測中 mean attenuations 角度 25.17% vs 度 (in 6 衰減 vs 10 機頭 in smaller 度至 size 10 小照 10 cm^2, 不同 23.53% vs 能量 in larger 平均 size. In 約 other gantry 及 the mean 大照 were 9.51% 的 7.31% (in 約 MV vs 及 MV) in 其他 field size, 入射角 8.57% vs 小照 in larger 的 size. In 衰減 field size 為 higher photon 大照 the attenuation 的 were significantly 衰減 (p＜ 0.01).The 及 attenuation of 是 compressor was 野 diameter 1cm 高能量 beam center, 因子 is the 有 of the 降低 The attenuation 結論 to the 減效 suppression plate 隨著 lower than 能量 attenuation of 與 screw, but 而 should also 減少 concerned. Conclusions: 呼吸 attenuation effects 能夠 decrease when 地並 with higher 舒適 larger field 減少 Therefore, CFRCB 造成 control and 器官 the respiratory 但 efficiently and 要 but the 造成 effect should 衰 considered. When 若腫瘤 tumor targets 被 blocked by 呼吸 the CFRCB 遮蔽 not be 避免 in treatment 調控板 the attenuation 以 must be 計畫 by the 計算 system.
生 cyst of 空間 presacral space 腫是 a rare 先天 lesion. Cases 皮囊 malignance arising 腫瘤 the lesion 罕見 extremely rare. 搜尋 searching the 案例 there are 英文 1 image 與 in English 個案 (PubMed) and 被 cases reports 我們 Japanese literature 六十二 the disease. 女性 we report 被 62-year-old female 空間 was diagnosed 這名 presacral cyst 了 surgery. Wide 移除 of the 檢查 tumor by 上皮 operation was 因為 The pathology 中 squamous cell 接著 Because of 術 rapture during 放射 adjuvant radiotherapy 是 Gray/ 25 二十五分 was performed. 了 1 year 蹤 up, there 復 no evidence of disease.
Epidermoid 生 of the 空間 space is 腫是 rare congenital 先天 Cases of 皮囊 arising from 腫瘤 lesion are 罕見 rare. After 搜尋 the literature, 案例 are only 英文 image report 與 English literature 個案 and 4 被 reports in 我們 literature of 六十二 disease. Here 女性 report a 被 female who 空間 diagnosed with 這名 cyst before 了 Wide excision 移除 the cystic 檢查 by Kraske's 上皮 was performed. 因為 pathology showed 中 cell carcinoma. 接著 of tumor 術 during operation, 放射 radiotherapy 50 是 25 fractions 二十五分 performed. After 了 year follow 蹤 there is 復 evidence of disease.
惡性 peripheral nerve 髓鞘 tumor usually 來源 from peripheral 下肢 cells of 周圍 nerves in 神經 buttock and 疼痛 extremities. It 遲鈍 is associated 當壓 pain and 神經 and develops 成 limb pain 疼痛 compressing the 報告 nerve. In 提出 report, we 不常見 an unusual 惡性 buttock malignant 腫瘤 nerve sheath 且 case with 進行 hypoesthesia and 鈍 over the 等 aspect of 大腿 thigh in 病患 beginning. Though 左側 had undergone 手術 resection with 放射 radiation therapy 化學 chemotherapy, this 腫瘤 progressed quickly 地 relentlessly. Finally, 然 malignant peripheral 神經 sheath tumor 壓迫 the left 左側 nerve and 頑固性 intractable limb 最 and the 因為 passed away 往生 cachexia.
Malignant 惡性 nerve sheath 髓鞘 usually originates 來源 peripheral nerve 下肢 of sciatic 周圍 in the 神經 and lower 疼痛 It often 遲鈍 associated with 當壓 and dysesthesia, 神經 develops intractable 成 pain when 疼痛 the associated 報告 In this 提出 we present 不常見 unusual left 惡性 malignant peripheral 腫瘤 sheath tumor 且 with progressive 進行 and numbness 鈍 the posterior 等 of left 大腿 in the 病患 Though he 左側 undergone limb-sparing 手術 with adjuvant 放射 therapy and 化學 this tumor 腫瘤 quickly and 地 Finally, the 然 peripheral nerve 神經 tumor compressed 壓迫 left sciatic 左側 and developed 頑固性 limb pain, 最 the patient 因為 away with 往生
目的 The aim 研究 the study 化學 to investigate 治療 correlation between 血紅素值 level during 後 therapy and 之關 survival in 和 cancer. Materials 年 Methods: Between 至 2006 and 期間 2010, patients 非遠端 nonmetastatic nasopharyngeal 鼻咽癌 were enrolled. 治療 consisted of 靶體 least 70 與 to the 結給予 target volumes 線 primary tumor 以 any positive 分次 disease using 病人 Gy to 化學 Gy per 部份 Most patients 接受 received concurrent 治療 chemotherapy with 化學 without induction 和 Induction chemotherapy 療 EP-HDFL, consisted 前導性 Epirubicin, Cisplatin, 且 and Leucovorin. 或 chemotherapy, PFL, 放射 of Cisplatin, 每週 and Leucovorin. 測量 hemoglobin levels 評估 induction chemotherapy 學效應 concurrent chemoradiation 位 were checked 納入 evaluation of 期中 effects. Results: 個 64 patients 第三期 enrolled with 第四期 median follow-up 差 56 months. 整體 stage III 為 IV predicted 化學 5-year overall 中 rates, 88.5% 貧血 58.3%, respectively. 學 grade 2 中 in induction 貧血 and grade 與 anemia in 的 chemotherapy correlated 存活率 worse 5-year 分別 survival rates, 在 and 50.0%, 中並 No grade 發生 or 5 第五 occurred in 貧血 study. The 效應 of anemia 分析 a trend 於 significance in 除了 analysis. Conclusion: 前導性 AJCC staging, 治療 hemoglobin levels 或 induction chemotherapy 學 concurrent chemoradiation 期間 is a 之 clinical predictor 為 long-term treatment 的 in nasopharyngeal 治療
Purpose: 目的 aim of 研究 study is 化學 investigate the 治療 between hemoglobin 血紅素值 during chemoradiation 後 and overall 之關 in nasopharyngeal 和 Materials and 年 Between December 至 and March 期間 patients with 非遠端 nasopharyngeal cancer 鼻咽癌 enrolled. Radiation 治療 of at 靶體 70 Gy 與 the planning 結給予 volumes of 線 tumor plus 以 positive nodal 分次 using 1.8 病人 to 2.0 化學 per fraction. 部份 patients (79.7%) 接受 concurrent cisplatinbased 治療 with or 化學 induction chemotherapy. 和 chemotherapy regimens, 療 consisted of 前導性 Cisplatin, 5-FU, 且 Leucovorin. Concurrent 或 PFL, consisted 放射 Cisplatin, 5-FU, 每週 Leucovorin. Weekly 測量 levels during 評估 chemotherapy and/or 學效應 chemoradiation therapy 位 checked for 納入 of hematological 期中 Results: Total 個 patients were 第三期 with a 第四期 follow-up of 差 months. AJCC 整體 III and 為 predicted worse 化學 overall survival 中 88.5% and 貧血 respectively. Both 學 2 anemia 中 induction chemotherapy 貧血 grade 3 與 in concurrent 的 correlated with 存活率 5-year overall 分別 rates, 50.0% 在 50.0%, respectively. 中並 grade 4 發生 5 anemia 第五 in this 貧血 The effect 效應 anemia had 分析 trend toward 於 in univariate 除了 Conclusion: Besides 前導性 staging, weekly 治療 levels during 或 chemotherapy and/or 學 chemoradiation therapy 期間 a potentially 之 predictor of 為 treatment outcome 的 nasopharyngeal cancer.
目的 To compare 多型 treatment results 狀母 different radiotherapy 不同 for glioblastoma 治療 (GBM). Materials 之 Methods: Between 材料 1995 and 方法 2012, 65 月 with GBM 年 treated with 共 surgical resection, 性膠 by different 細胞瘤 radiotherapy (RT) 切除 were evaluated 接受 27 patients 之輔 1) had 放射 CCRT (concurrent 第一 with temozolomide 位 administered orally 局部 75 mg/m^2 治療 surface area 合 daily from 帝盟 first to 輔助性 last day 合 local RT 使用 cGy/30 fractions), 每日 by adjuvant 服用 (150 to 為 mg/m^2 BSA, 第一天 dosing and 最 days non-treatment) ; the patient's 劑量 or progressive 每日 occurred. 24 連續 (group 2) 天 received adjuvant 一個 alone with 服用 cGy/33-35 fractions. 病患 patients (group 或 had received 第二 (FIF) boost 位 with RT 接受 of daily 照射 of 180 局部 to brain 治療 site, followed 治療 subsequently 70 組 (total 250 位 daily) to 再 field of 之術 bed with 局部 total dose 每日 6250-6500 cGy 大照 other chemotherapy 再減 The primary 野 was overall 共 (OS). Results: 達 follow-up was 量 months (range, 介入 months). Median 終點 and time 整體 progression for 追 patients were 期 and 8.2 中 respectively. Median 為 of group 月 2 and 之 were 19.9, 存活期 and 10.4 數及 respectively. The 中位 1 had 及 better OS 第一 both group 第二 (p = 第三 and group 之 (p = 存活期 No significant 為 in OS 個 group 2 其中 3 (p 病患 0.06). Median 整體 free survival 與 did not 三組 significantly among 相較 1, 2 上 3 (median 顯著 9.8, 7.2 疾病 9.7 months, 的 group 1 位數 2, group 病患 vs 3, 並無顯 group 3 差異 1, p 狀態 0.09, 0.90 是否 0.80, respectively). 腫瘤 ECOG PS 助性 Cooperative Oncology 方法 performance status), 存活期 (gross tumor 重要 or not 結論 RT protocol 回溯 significantly correlated 研究 overall survival 體能 both univariate 手術 multivariate analysis. 完全 Three independent 及術後輔 of survival 治療 identified in 影響 studies: ECOG 性膠 GTR or 細胞瘤 and RT 重要 When independent 病患 factors were 佳 advantageous median 切除 was found 及 for the 後 whose ECOG 放射 were ≤ 照射 and who 併 GTR, followed 多及 TMZ during 多療程 after conventional 到 (6000 cGy/30 整體
Purpose: 目的 compare the 多型 results of 狀母 radiotherapy protocols 不同 glioblastoma multiforme 治療 Materials and 之 Between February 材料 and September 方法 65 patients 月 GBM who 年 with maximal 共 resection, followed 性膠 different external 細胞瘤 (RT) protocols 切除 evaluated retrospectively. 接受 patients (group 之輔 had received 放射 (concurrent chemoradiotherapy) 第一 temozolomide (TMZ) 位 orally at 局部 mg/m^2 body 治療 area (BSA) 合 from the 帝盟 to the 輔助性 day with 合 RT (6000 使用 fractions), followed 每日 adjuvant TMZ 服用 to 200 為 BSA, 5-day 第一天 and 23 最 non-treatment) till ; patient's death 劑量 progressive disease 每日 24 patients 連續 2) had 天 adjuvant RT 一個 with 6660-7000 服用 fractions. 14 病患 (group 3) 或 received field-in-field 第二 boost protocol 位 RT consisted 接受 daily fractions 照射 180 cGy 局部 brain tumor 治療 followed by 治療 70 cGy 組 250 cGy 位 to reduced 再 of tumor 之術 with a 局部 dose of 每日 cGy without 大照 chemotherapy permission. 再減 primary endpoint 野 overall survival 共 Results: Median 達 was 13.6 量 (range, 3.6-67.1 介入 Median OS 終點 time to 整體 for 65 追 were 13.3 期 8.2 months, 中 Median OS 為 group 1, 月 and 3 之 19.9, 12.6 存活期 10.4 months, 數及 The group 中位 had significantly 及 OS than 第一 group 2 第二 = 0.03) 第三 group 3 之 = 0.04). 存活期 significant difference 為 OS of 個 2 and 其中 (p = 病患 Median progression 整體 survival (PFS) 與 not differ 三組 among group 相較 2 and 上 (median PFS: 顯著 7.2 and 疾病 months, respectively; 的 1 vs 位數 group 2 病患 3, and 並無顯 3 vs 差異 p = 狀態 0.90 and 是否 respectively). Patient 腫瘤 PS (Eastern 助性 Oncology Group 方法 status), GTR 存活期 tumor resection) 重要 not and 結論 protocol were 回溯 correlated with 研究 survival on 體能 univariate and 手術 analysis. Conclusions: 完全 independent predictors 及術後輔 survival were 治療 in our 影響 ECOG PS, 性膠 or not 細胞瘤 RT protocol. 重要 independent prognostic 病患 were examined, 佳 median OS 切除 found out 及 the patients 後 ECOG PS 放射 ≤ 2 照射 who had 併 followed by 多及 during and 多療程 conventional RT 到 cGy/30 fractions).
目的 To evaluate 以 therapeutic effects 調控 brain arteriovenous 導航立體 (AVM) treated 放射 image-guided stereotactic 腦部動 using volumetric 畸形 arc therapy. 材料 and Methods: 方法 March 2010 於 November 2012, 月 were 20 月 with brain 分析 treated with 導航立體 stereotactic radiosurgery 放射 our institution. 部動靜脈 median age 患者 diagnosis was 部動靜脈 years (ranged 的 9 to 治療 years). Fourteen 的 were male 中位 and 6 歲 female (30%). 為 all these 位 patients, 5 女性 (25%) had 病患 surgery of 過手術 with excision, 病患 2 patients 接受 received previous 栓塞 embolization. No 觀察療 had been 有用 with observation 任何 at the 立體 of diagnosis. 放射 median dose 的 stereotactic radiosurgery 數為 18 Gy 體積 from 12 數為 20 Gy). 追 median clinical 期 volume was 位 c.c (ranged 為 1.5 to 接受 c.c). Results: 之 median follow-up 有 was 11.8 患者 (ranged from 畸形 to 35.4 消退 Four patients 部分 had complete 其餘 8 patients 則為 had partial 疾病 while 8 兩年 (40%) had 的 diseases after 率分別 The actuarial 結論 2-year and 弧形 obliteration rates 影像 40%, 55% 定位 60%, respectively. 治療 The therapeutic 靜脈 of brain 成效 treated with 追 stereotactic radiosurgery 間 volumetric modulated 位 therapy achieved 個 of both 之 and partial 整體 rate within 消退 median follow-up 一年 of 11.8 三年 The actuarial 率則 2-year and 為 obliteration rates 必需 40%, 55% 更長 60%, respectively. 追 long-term follow-up 以 should be 更 to evaluate 確 further treatment 成效
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 以 effects of 調控 arteriovenous malformation 導航立體 treated with 放射 stereotactic radiosurgery 腦部動 volumetric modulated 畸形 therapy. Material 材料 Methods: From 方法 2010 through 於 2012, there 月 20 patients 月 brain AVM 分析 with image-guided 導航立體 radiosurgery in 放射 institution. The 部動靜脈 age at 患者 was 40 部動靜脈 (ranged from 的 to 74 治療 Fourteen patients 的 male (70%) 中位 6 were 歲 (30%). Among 為 these 20 位 5 patients 女性 had previous 病患 of craniotomy 過手術 excision, and 病患 patients (10%) 接受 previous endovascular 栓塞 No patients 觀察療 been managed 有用 observation only 任何 the time 立體 diagnosis. The 放射 dose of 的 radiosurgery was 數為 Gy (ranged 體積 12 to 數為 Gy). The 追 clinical target 期 was 3.6 位 (ranged from 為 to 15.5 接受 Results: The 之 follow-up period 有 11.8 months 患者 from 4.7 畸形 35.4 months). 消退 patients (20%) 部分 complete obliteration, 其餘 patients (40%) 則為 partial obliteration, 疾病 8 patients 兩年 had stable 的 after treatments. 率分別 actuarial 1-year, 結論 and 3-year 弧形 rates were 影像 55% and 定位 respectively. Conclusion: 治療 therapeutic effects 靜脈 brain AVM 成效 with image-guided 追 radiosurgery using 間 modulated arc 位 achieved 60% 個 both complete 之 partial obliteration 整體 within the 消退 follow-up period 一年 11.8 months. 三年 actuarial 1-year, 率則 and 3-year 為 rates were 必需 55% and 更長 respectively. The 追 follow-up duration 以 be warranted 更 evaluate the 確 treatment results.
目的 We retrospectively 回溯 the clinicopathologic 顱內 and treatment 臨床 including radiotherapy 治療 alone and 單純 chemotherapy followed 及 RT (CRT), 治療 the clinical 線 of intracranial 預 Methods and 方法 A total 於 20 patients 總共收錄 with tissue-confirmed 組織 germinoma between 本院 and 2012 追 available follow-up 料 were included 內 this study. 病人 patients underwent 病人 and 4 併 RT alone. 放射 involved one 位 five cycles 單純 upfront chemotherapy 對 by limited-field 的 ventricle plus 先 tumor boost) 療程 extended-field RT 化學 irradiation [CSI] 接受 by limited-field), 治療 which the 腫瘤 field and 是 depended on 放射 tumor location, 之劑 to chemotherapy, 大小 metastatic status. 腫瘤 them, 13 化學 received limited 和 extended-field RT 侵犯 3-dimensional (3D) 在 radiotherapy (3D-CRT), 有 7 patients 採用 CSI accompanied 放射 helical tomotherapy. 進行 This study 位 of 18 脊髓 and 2 則採用 patients, with 治療 median age 本 14 years 男性 y). After 女性 median follow-up 數為 34 months, 至 3-year disease-free 蹤 rate and 平均 survival (OS) 月 were 90% 的 100%, respectively. 存活率 the RT 存活率 group, the 於 was delivered 放射 a tumor 病人 of 30.6 照射 in fractions 格雷 1.8 Gy/d, 若無腦 and neurohypophysis 時 administering 30 下腺神 in fractions 為 2 Gy/d 照射 no CSI 腫瘤 used. Finally, 劑量 tumor was 數劑 to receive 而 total median 接受 of 50 及放療 (46.5-50.4 Gy), 脊髓 for the 中位 group, the 格雷 brain and/or 格雷 received a 腫瘤 of 24 劑量 (21.6-30.6 Gy) 格雷 fractions of 接受 Gy/d, and 治療 tumor was 沒 to a 發 median dose 然而 45 Gy 但 Gy). No 接受 developed in 照射 treated using 脊椎 RT; however, 發 patients treated 的 CRT, but 於 with CSI, 生殖 spinal relapse. 不論 Our results 液 that induction β accompanied by 搭配 and volume-reduced 較 resulted in 範圍 disease control 線 prognosis for 到 germinoma, including 疾病 secreting germinoma.
Purpose: 目的 retrospectively analyzed 回溯 clinicopathologic features 顱內 treatment modalities, 臨床 radiotherapy (RT) 治療 and induction 單純 followed by 及 (CRT), and 治療 clinical outcomes 線 intracranial germinoma. 預 and Materials: 方法 total of 於 patients diagnosed 總共收錄 tissue-confirmed intracranial 組織 between 2006 本院 2012 and 追 follow-up data 料 included in 內 study. Sixteen 病人 underwent CRT 病人 4 underwent 併 alone. CRT 放射 one to 位 cycles of 單純 chemotherapy followed 對 limited-field (whole 的 plus primary 先 boost) or 療程 RT (craniospinal 化學 [CSI] followed 接受 limited-field), for 治療 the RT 腫瘤 and dose 是 on the 放射 location, response 之劑 chemotherapy, and 大小 status. Among 腫瘤 13 patients 化學 limited or 和 RT with 侵犯 (3D) conformal 在 (3D-CRT), and 有 patients received 採用 accompanied by 放射 tomotherapy. Results: 進行 study consisted 位 18 male 脊髓 2 female 則採用 with a 治療 age of 本 years (7-29 男性 After a 女性 follow-up of 數為 months, the 至 disease-free survival 蹤 and overall 平均 (OS) rate 月 90% and 的 respectively. For 存活率 RT alone 存活率 the CSI 於 delivered with 放射 tumor dose 病人 30.6 Gy 照射 fractions of 格雷 Gy/d, whole-ventricle 若無腦 neurohypophysis involved 時 30 Gy 下腺神 fractions of 為 Gy/d if 照射 CSI was 腫瘤 Finally, the 劑量 was boosted 數劑 receive a 而 median dose 接受 50 Gy 及放療 Gy), whereas 脊髓 the CRT 中位 the entire 格雷 and/or spine 格雷 a median 腫瘤 24 Gy 劑量 Gy) in 格雷 of 1.5-1.8 接受 and the 治療 was boosted 沒 a total 發 dose of 然而 Gy (24-50.4 但 No recurrences 接受 in patients 照射 using extended 脊椎 however, 2 發 treated with 的 but not 於 CSI, developed 生殖 relapse. Conclusion: 不論 results indicate 液 induction chemotherapy β by dosereduced 搭配 volume-reduced RT 較 in effective 範圍 control and 線 for intracranial 到 including β-HCG 疾病 germinoma.
目的 A treatment 惡性 study comparing 間 arc modulation 應用 RapidArc and 與 radiotherapy (IMRT) 調控 malignant pleural 治療 (MPM). Materials 的 Methods: For 進行 IMRT and 較 the dose 方法 and optimizations 本科 performed using 的 Eclipse treatment 執行 system. The 治療 for IMRT 優化 nine fixed 再 were compared 計劃 four partial 進行 with a 量 isocenter. All 正常 were optimized 接受 6 MV 監測 beams. The 及 prescription was 時間 Gy to 治療 planning target 保證 For organs 分析 risk, the 二種 and maximum 計劃 were constrained 的 additional objectives 結果 set on 的 volume thresholds. 和 monitor units 是 and delivery 於 were scored 計算 measure the 是 efficiency. The 周邊 planning dosimetry 正常 delivery to 所 calculation agreement 劑量 the passing 可以 of gamma 治療 Results: RapidArc 限制 IMRT provided 的 coverage, the 一般 of maximum 於 of CTV 計劃 IMRT and 分別 were 65.78 以及 67.09 Gy, 於 The conformity 二倍 (COIN) and 量 index (HI) 完成 RapidArc were 所 than IMRT. 的 techniques accomplished 為 on organs 完成 risk with 所 tendency of 時間 to improve 為 The number 測量 MUs was 距離 ± 24.75 劑量 RapidArc and 的 ± 367 和 IMRT. Treatment 計劃 delivery time 量值 4.0 ± 的 min for 碼值 and 11.96 率 1.0 min 以及 IMRT. The 利用 between planning 照野 measurement showed 的 passing rate 技術 gamma index 提供 IMRT of 好 and for 高劑 of 92.65%. 覆蓋率 Compared with 降低 RapidArc treatment 接受 can provide 輻射劑 target coverage 和 better dose 可以 to the 治療 at risks 需 MPM patients. 花費 can also 時間 the treatment 以上 and treatment 發性 more than 的 to prevent 以及 possibility of 中 tumors and 自主 from daily 所 of involuntary 誤差
Purpose: 目的 treatment planning 惡性 comparing volumetric 間 modulation with 應用 and intensity-modulated 與 (IMRT) for 調控 pleural mesothelioma 治療 Materials and 的 For both 進行 and RapidArc, 較 dose calculations 方法 optimizations were 本科 using the 的 treatment planning 執行 The plans 治療 IMRT with 優化 fixed beams 再 compared against 計劃 partial arcs 進行 a single 量 All plans 正常 optimized for 接受 MV photon 監測 The dose 及 was 60 時間 to the 治療 target volume. 保證 organs at 分析 the mean 二種 maximum doses 計劃 constrained and 的 objectives were 結果 on various 的 thresholds. The 和 units (MUs) 是 delivery time 於 scored to 計算 the treatment 是 The treatment 周邊 dosimetry scored 正常 to the 所 agreement with 劑量 passing rate 可以 gamma index. 治療 RapidArc and 限制 provided equivalent 的 the average 一般 maximum dose 於 CTV for 計劃 and RapidArc 分別 65.78 Gy, 以及 Gy, respectively. 於 conformity index 二倍 and homogeneity 量 (HI) of 完成 were better 所 IMRT. Both 的 accomplished objectives 為 organs at 完成 with a 所 of RA 時間 improve sparing. 為 number of 測量 was 828 距離 24.75 for 劑量 and 1799 的 367 for 和 Treatment plan 計劃 time was 量值 ± 0.71 的 for RapidArc 碼值 11.96 ± 率 min for 以及 The agreement 利用 planning and 照野 showed the 的 rate of 技術 index for 提供 of 91.06% 好 for RapidArc 高劑 92.65%. Conclusion: 覆蓋率 with IMRT, 降低 treatment technique 接受 provide similar 輻射劑 coverage and 和 dose sparing 可以 the organs 治療 risks for 需 patients. RapidArc 花費 also reduce 時間 treatment MU 以上 treatment time 發性 than 50% 的 prevent the 以及 of secondary 中 and uncertainty 自主 daily treatment 所 involuntary movement.
目的 Field width 治療 and pitch 以旋進 (PF) are 劑量 that influence 寬度 quality of 兩個 plans and 設定 times in 治療 that delivers 結果 radiation therapy. 之影響 study examines 在 relationship between 的 parameters and 與 influence on 在 quality of 假體 plan. Material 治療 Method: Target 的 and organ 與 risk (OAR) 斷層 were delineated 取得 a computerized 水假體 of a 影像 chess phantom. 體 the weightings 危急 each volume, 執行 plans were 最佳化 with a 相同 combination of 體積 parameters (FW 器官 5, 2,5, 不同 cm. PF 及 0.2, 0.4, 比較 0.8). Each 靶體 was analyzed 與 dose distribution, 之 time, homogeneity 以及 conformity index 接受 ripple effect. 結果 For revolutions 當機頭 between 15 所花 60 seconds, 於 increase in 時 time correlated 與 decreasing field 而 The ratio 有關 treatment time 的 different field 比值 when treatment : at 5 螺距 was 1, 機頭 and 4 小 at widths 時 2.5 cm 機器 1 cm 的 Where change 週期 pitch factor 機頭 did not 週期 in change 時間 treatment time. 寬度 revolutions under 向 seconds, smaller 區愈 denotes longer 設定 time. The 積內 of penumbra 的 with increasing 此時 At pitch 的 0.6, the 靶體 effect was 在橫 and the 並無明 index was 寬度 its worst. 照野邊 conformity indices 向 non-significantly. Longitudinally, 梯度 dose gradient 野寬度 with decreasing 螺距 width. Doses 器官 OARs were 最佳 at small 落 and field 的 OARs in 接受 direction had 劑量 median dose. 高 Change in 結果 width could 時間 to change 寬度 treatment time. 相關 time could 治療 shortened with 主 of large 野寬度 width and 螺距 pitch value, 靶體 expense of 腳 dose to 的 directions. Combination 增加 small field 品質 and small 則 yielded better 野寬度 quality, and 螺距 in treatment 會
Purpose: 目的 width (FW) 治療 pitch factor 以旋進 are parameters 劑量 influence the 寬度 of treatment 兩個 and beam-on 設定 in Tomotherapy 治療 delivers helical 結果 therapy. This 之影響 examines the 在 between these 的 and their 與 on the 在 of treatment 假體 Material and 治療 Target volumes 的 organ at 與 (OAR) volumes 斷層 delineated on 取得 computerized tomography 水假體 a cylindrical 影像 phantom. Maintaining 體 weightings of 危急 volume, treatment 執行 were optimized 最佳化 a different 相同 of planning 體積 (FW = 器官 2,5, 1 不同 PF = 及 0.4, 0.6, 比較 Each plan 靶體 analyzed for 與 distribution, treatment 之 homogeneity index, 以及 index and 接受 effect. Result: 結果 revolutions lasting 當機頭 15 and 所花 seconds, the 於 in treatment 時 correlated with 與 field width. 而 ratio between 有關 time with 的 field widths, 比值 treatment time : 5 cm 螺距 1, 1.8 機頭 4 times 小 widths of 時 cm and 機器 cm respectively. 的 change in 週期 factor was 機頭 not result 週期 change in 時間 time. For 寬度 under 15 向 smaller pitch 區愈 longer treatment 設定 The dimension 積內 penumbra increased 的 increasing width. 此時 pitch factor 的 the ripple 靶體 was evident 在橫 the homogeneity 並無明 was at 寬度 worst. Transversely, 照野邊 indices differed 向 Longitudinally, the 梯度 gradient increased 野寬度 decreasing field 螺距 Doses to 器官 were minimized 最佳 small pitch 落 field width. 的 in longitudinal 接受 had higher 劑量 dose. Conclusion: 高 in field 結果 could lead 時間 change in 寬度 time. Treatment 相關 could be 治療 with combination 主 large field 野寬度 and the 螺距 value, at 靶體 of increased 腳 to longitudinal 的 Combination of 增加 field width 品質 small pitch 則 better planning 野寬度 and increase 螺距 treatment time.
黏液 carcinoma of 樣癌並 orbit is 的 uncommon neoplasm. 腫瘤 report a 將報 Taiwanese man 男性 a painless 凸出 for 8 年 He underwent 案例 resection. By 接受 mucoepidermoid carcinoma 並經 diagnosed. Owing 病理 the rare 為 the role 樣癌 adjuvant radiotherapy 病例 in the 難以 control has 放射 been defined. 的 episodes of 案例 developed despite 反覆 surgery in 接受 case. The 多次 was treated 切除 the adjuvant 後 afterwards. The 接受 at 2 刀作 image follow 放射 revealed stationary 且經 volume state 追 treatment. Therefore, 觀察到 RT could 腫瘤 an option 輔助 treatment for 可以 mucoepidermoid carcinoma 復 from the 黏液 following surgery. 病患 decision making 本文 this case 案例 discussed and 過程 reports are 並且 in this 文獻
Mucoepidermoid 黏液 of the 樣癌並 is an 的 neoplasm. We 腫瘤 a 62-year-old 將報 man developed 男性 painless proptosis 凸出 8 years. 年 underwent tumor 案例 By histopathology, 接受 carcinoma was 並經 Owing to 病理 rare incidence, 為 role of 樣癌 radiotherapy (RT) 病例 the disease 難以 has not 放射 defined. Several 的 of recurrence 案例 despite repeated 反覆 in this 接受 The patient 多次 treated with 切除 adjuvant TomoTherapy 後 The results 接受 2 years 刀作 follow up 放射 stationary tumor 且經 state after 追 Therefore, adjuvant 觀察到 could be 腫瘤 option of 輔助 for recurrent 可以 carcinoma arising 復 the eye 黏液 surgery. Treatment 病患 making of 本文 case is 案例 and previous 過程 are reviewed 並且 this article.
前言 Small cell 通常 usually arises 肺 the lung 也 can also 於 in a 許多 range of 肺外 sites. Extrapulmonary 小 cell carcinoma 見 rare, encompassing 了 0.1-0.4 percent 的 all small 四 carcinomas, and 在 been described 的 a variety 上 organs. Small 小細胞癌 carcinoma of 膀胱 genitourinary tract 輸尿管 often found 罕見 the urinary 一個 and is 歲 rare in 因為 ureter. Case 前 A 56-year-old 右 was admitted 住院 a two-month 斷層 of the 骨 flank pain. 發現 abdominal computed 右側 demonstrated an 浸潤性 mass lesion 約 size of 隨著 8.5 × 右側 cm in 腎 right pelvis, 輸尿管 from the 接受 ureter, with 療程 right hydronephrosis 鉑 hydroureter. The 的 received neoadjuvant 治療 with cisplatin 接受 gemcitabine for 輔助式 cycles, followed 鏡 right side 切除 retroneoscopic nephroureterectomy. 做 adjuvant concurrent 學 was given. 治療 chemotherapy regimens 的 cisplatin and 三個 for 3 順 The irradiation 依托 consisted of 放射 Gy/36 fractions 的 the tumor 在 Discussion: The 病灶 common symptoms 原發 this disease 最常見 gross hematuria 是 flank pain. 血尿 staging of 腹側 disease is 疾病 to small 依據 carcinoma of 原發 lung. The 的 of ureter 仍 cell carcinoma 完整 not well 儘 Despite adjuvant 輔 or radiotherapy, 治療 patients develop 病人 disease resulting 都 poor prognosis 轉移且 this disease. 後 treatment is 了 to improve 積極 outcome. However, 是 tolerance of 但是 patients is 到 needed to 耐受性 considered.
Introduction: 前言 cell carcinoma 通常 arises in 肺 lung but 也 also originate 於 a wide 許多 of extrapulmonary 肺外 Extrapulmonary small 小 carcinoma is 見 encompassing approximately 了 percent of 的 small cell 四 and has 在 described in 的 variety of 上 Small cell 小細胞癌 of the 膀胱 tract is 輸尿管 found in 罕見 urinary bladder, 一個 is extremely 歲 in the 因為 Case report: 前 56-year-old man 右 admitted with 住院 two-month history 斷層 the right 骨 pain. An 發現 computed tomography 右側 an infiltrative 浸潤性 lesion with 約 of about 隨著 × 7.6 右側 in the 腎 pelvis, arising 輸尿管 the right 接受 with severe 療程 hydronephrosis and 鉑 The patient 的 neoadjuvant chemotherapy 治療 cisplatin and 接受 for 3 輔助式 followed by 鏡 side hand-assisted 切除 nephroureterectomy. Then 做 concurrent chemo-radiotherapy 學 given. The 治療 regimens were 的 and etoposide 三個 3 cycles. 順 irradiation course 依托 of 64.8 放射 fractions to 的 tumor bed. 在 The most 病灶 symptoms of 原發 disease are 最常見 hematuria and 是 pain. The 血尿 of this 腹側 is according 疾病 small cell 依據 of the 原發 The treatment 的 ureter small 仍 carcinoma is 完整 well established. 儘 adjuvant chemotherapy 輔 radiotherapy, most 治療 develop metastatic 病人 resulting in 都 prognosis of 轉移且 disease. Aggressive 後 is warranted 了 improve the 積極 However, the 是 of the 但是 is still 到 to be 耐受性
目的 To report 無遠端 biochemical outcomes, 攝護 and toxicity 強度 patients with 治療 prostate cancer 生化 with intensity-modulated 發 (IMRT).Materials and 治療 Between December 結果 and March 與 eighty-seven patients 至 clinically localized 共 cancer were 且 with IMRT 之 our institution. 於 was planned 強度 an inverse-planning 線 The beam 利用 profiles were 電腦 by dynamic 搭配 collimation. Patients 準直儀 stratified by 依美國 risk groups 資訊網 on National 腺癌 Cancer Network 化學 risk classification 臨床 Biochemical failure 年 defined using 所達成 2005 ASTRO 血液 consensus definition 的 the nadir 值大 antigen (PSA) 加 plus 2 治療 Prescribed dose 於 from 61-78.4 治療 The median 蹤 time was 中位值 months (range: 範圍 months).Results : 到 3-year actuarial 結果 relapse-free survival 無 for low, 存活率 high, and 低 high risk 高 patients were 高 100%, 76.3%, 是 88.5%, respectively. 五年 3- and 分別 actuarial overall 位 rates were 急性 and 80%. 副作用 patients (28.7%) 有 acute Grade 級 GI toxicity, 道 no patient 病人 acute Grade 第二 or greater 症狀 symptoms. Nineteen 病人 (21.8%) developed 滯留 Grade 2 級 (GU) symptoms, 沒有 one experienced 慢性 3 or 以上 GU toxicity. 只有 patient developed 出現 Grade 2 級 greater rectal 無 Only three 慢性 (3.5%) experienced 以上 Grade 2 結論 toxicity. No 結果 Grade 3 強度 greater GU 治療 have been 病人 Our data 臨床 the feasibility 初步 IMRT in 復 treatment of 與 prostate cancer. 調控 and late 的 toxicities are 隨少數 Short-term biochemical 和 are comparable 副作用 published results 有利 IMRT. Based 強度 this favorable 線 IMRT has 本科 the standard 且 for localized 之 cancer at 標準 institution.
Purpose: 目的 report preliminary 無遠端 outcomes, survival 攝護 toxicity for 強度 with localized 治療 cancer treated 生化 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 發 and Methods: 治療 December 2003 結果 March 2012, 與 patients with 至 localized prostate 共 were treated 且 IMRT at 之 institution. Treatment 於 planned using 強度 inverse-planning method. 線 beam intensity 利用 were delivered 電腦 dynamic multileaf 搭配 Patients were 準直儀 by prognostic 依美國 groups based 資訊網 National Comprehensive 腺癌 Network (NCCN) 化學 classification criteria. 臨床 failure was 年 using the 所達成 ASTRO Phoenix 血液 definition of 的 nadir prostate-specific 值大 (PSA) concentration 加 2 ng/mL. 治療 dose ranged 於 61-78.4 Gy. 治療 median follow-up 蹤 was 41 中位值 (range: 10-105 範圍 : The 到 actuarial biochemical 結果 survival rates 無 low, intermediate, 存活率 and very 低 risk group 高 were 100%, 高 76.3%, and 是 respectively. The 五年 and 5-year 分別 overall survival 位 were 92% 急性 80%. Twenty-five 副作用 (28.7%) developed 有 Grade 2 級 toxicity, and 道 patient experienced 病人 Grade 3 第二 greater rectal 症狀 Nineteen patients 病人 developed acute 滯留 2 genitourinary 級 symptoms, and 沒有 experienced Grade 慢性 or higher 以上 toxicity. No 只有 developed late 出現 2 or 級 rectal toxicity. 無 three patients 慢性 experienced late 以上 2 GU 結論 No late 結果 3 or 強度 GU complications 治療 been observed.Conclusions: 病人 data demonstrate 臨床 feasibility of 初步 in the 復 of localized 與 cancer. Acute 調控 late rectal 的 are minimal. 隨少數 biochemical controls 和 comparable to 副作用 results of 有利 Based on 強度 favorable outcome, 線 has become 本科 standard treatment 且 localized prostate 之 at our 標準
目的 We present 使用 two-year experience 呼吸 using moderate 於 inspiration breath-hold 的 with an 分析 breathing control 藉以 device for 於 with early-stage 肝臟 cancer and 減少 comparison to 材料 the benefit 我們 mDIBH on 年 heart, lung, 年 liver.Materials and 接受 We retrospectively 所有 all patients 病患 newly diagnosed 第一期 cancer and 病患 clinical stage 總計 I, or 其中 disease treated 適度 November 2010 調控 July 2012. 位則 the 81 將兩組 included in 量分析 study, 24 肺臟 were treated 所 mDIBH and 的 patients were 有 with free 呼吸 Dosimetric analysis 與 performed to 兩組 dose distribution 分析 the heart, 以下 and liver 異 the two 腫瘤 groups.Results: There 年齡 no significant 靶區 in the 包覆 of stage, 體積 site, age, 與 target volume 位 V50 and 經 of CTV, 有 and liver 呼吸 the non-ABC 的 ABC group. 於 all 81 病患 there was 低 significantly lower 肺臟 lung V10, 單側 lung V20, 兩側 ipsilateral lung 肺臟 whole lung 平均 whole lung 與 mean whole 若針 dose, liver 左側 and mean 進行 dose in 有 ABC group. 調控 37 patients 病患 a left-sided 自然 tumor, significantly 病患 ipsilateral lung 的 ipsilateral lung 單側 mean ipsilateral 肺臟 dose, heart 心臟 heart V40, 劑量 heart dose, 平均 mean liver 對 were observed 病患 the ABC 有 For 44 呼吸 with a 的 breast tumor, 於 lower ipsilateral 病患 V20, mean 低 lung dose, 肺臟 heart dose, 平均 V30, and 劑量 liver dose 肝臟 observed in 結論 ABC group.Conclusions: 深吸氣 early-stage breast 於 patients, mDIBH 患者 not only 降低 heart dose 線劑 also the 肺臟 and liver 劑量 The routine 使用 of mDIBH 呼吸 an ABC 幫忙 may decrease 線 toxicity in 心臟 heart, lung, 的 liver.
Purpose: 目的 present our 使用 experience of 呼吸 moderate deep 於 breath-hold (mDIBH) 的 an active 分析 control (ABC) 藉以 for patients 於 early-stage breast 肝臟 and dosimetric 減少 to evaluate 材料 benefit of 我們 on the 年 lung, and 年 and Methods: 接受 retrospectively reviewed 所有 patients with 病患 diagnosed breast 第一期 and having 病患 stage Tis, 總計 or II 其中 treated between 適度 2010 and 調控 2012. Among 位則 81 patients 將兩組 in this 量分析 24 patients 肺臟 treated with 所 and 57 的 were treated 有 free breathing. 呼吸 analysis was 與 to compare 兩組 distribution in 分析 heart, lung, 以下 liver between 異 two treatment 腫瘤 There was 年齡 significant difference 靶區 the distribution 包覆 stage, tumor 體積 age, clinical 與 volume (CTV) 位 and volume 經 CTV, heart, 有 liver between 呼吸 non-ABC and 的 group. For 於 81 patients, 病患 was a 低 lower ipsilateral 肺臟 V10, ipsilateral 單側 V20, mean 兩側 lung dose, 肺臟 lung V10, 平均 lung V20, 與 whole lung 若針 liver V30, 左側 mean liver 進行 in the 有 group. For 調控 patients with 病患 left-sided breast 自然 significantly lower 病患 lung V10, 的 lung V20, 單側 ipsilateral lung 肺臟 heart V30, 心臟 V40, mean 劑量 dose, and 平均 liver dose 對 observed in 病患 ABC group. 有 44 patients 呼吸 a right-sided 的 tumor, significantly 於 ipsilateral lung 病患 mean ipsilateral 低 dose, mean 肺臟 dose, liver 平均 and mean 劑量 dose were 肝臟 in the 結論 group.Conclusions: For 深吸氣 breast cancer 於 mDIBH reduces 患者 only the 降低 dose but 線劑 the lung 肺臟 liver doses. 劑量 routine integration 使用 mDIBH using 呼吸 ABC device 幫忙 decrease radiation-induced 線 in the 心臟 lung, and 的
目的 This study 研究 to determine 婦癌 impact of 身體 body-mass factors 對 magnitude of 盆腔 displacements in 時 treated with 位置 intensity modulated 誤差 (IMRT) for 材料 cancer.Methods: Using 我們 alignment data 位 daily on-line 或子 Board Imaging 接受 from image-guided 強度 (IGRT), the 治療 data of 病人 patients treated 相關 pelvic IMRT 體重 cervical or 質量 cancer was 腰徑 Body-mass factors 並 body weight, 病患 height, body 使用 index (BMI), 技術 circumference, waist 之 hip circumference 影像 hip thickness. 位置 displacements for 數值 patient were 包括 by four 前 namely systemic 左右 (SE), and 等 error (RE), 的 three translational 和 and couch 我們將 (CR). The 的 values for 因子 body-mass factors 位數 used as 點 points to 法來 the groups. 因子 Mann-Whitney U 位置 was conducted 所 assess the 影響 role of 前 factors for 左右 set-up errors.Results: 系統 SE and 隨機誤 were 2.8 公 2.6 mm, 釐 mm and 以及 mm, 1.4 公 1.3 mm 釐 the superior-inferior 角度 anterior-posterior (AP) 誤差 medial-lateral (ML) 差分 respectively. The 度 and RE 的 rotation (CR) 較 0.33 and 上下 degree. Larger 系統 circumference (WC) － significantly correlated 有 greater SI-SE 較 = 0.02), 臀圍 CR-RE (p 大 0.013), whereas － hip circumference 與 with greater － (p = 較 and CR-RE 身體 = 0.018). 引起 BMI was 的 with greater, 隨機誤 (p = 高 Body height 身高 with AP-SE 大 = 0.036).Conclusions: 後 reduce setup 誤差 in women 於 gynecological cancer 大 pelvic IMRT, 或 use of 於 IGRT should 或 recommended for 指數 who have 的 WC ＞ 我們 cm or 即時 HC ＞ 技術 cm, or 治療 BMI ＞22.1 設定
Purpose: 目的 study was 研究 determine the 婦癌 of the 身體 factors on 對 of setup 盆腔 in patients 時 with pelvic 位置 modulated radiotherapy 誤差 for gynecological 材料 Using the 我們 data of 位 on-line On 或子 Imaging (OBI) 接受 image-guided radiotherapy 強度 the clinical 治療 of 22 病人 treated with 相關 IMRT for 體重 or endometrial 質量 was analyzed. 腰徑 factors included 並 weight, body 病患 body mass 使用 (BMI), waist 技術 waist thickness, 之 circumference and 影像 thickness. Setup 位置 for each 數值 were assessed 包括 four components: 前 systemic error 左右 and random 等 (RE), through 的 translational directions 和 couch rotation 我們將 The median 的 for the 因子 factors were 位數 as cutoff 點 to divide 法來 groups. The 因子 U test 位置 conducted to 所 the predictive 影響 of these 前 for the 左右 errors.Results: Population 系統 and RE 隨機誤 2.8 mm, 公 mm, 2.4 釐 and 1.7 以及 1.4 mm, 公 mm in 釐 superior-inferior (SI), 角度 (AP) and 誤差 (ML) directions, 差分 The SE 度 RE for 的 (CR) was 較 and 0.25 上下 Larger waist 系統 (WC) was － correlated with 有 SI-SE (p 較 0.02), and 臀圍 (p = 大 whereas larger － circumference (HC) 與 greater SI-RE － = 0.045), 較 CR-RE (p 身體 0.018). Higher 引起 was associated 的 greater, CR-RE 隨機誤 = 0.006). 高 height correlated 身高 AP-SE (p 大 0.036).Conclusions: To 後 setup displacements 誤差 women with 於 cancer requiring 大 IMRT, the 或 of on-line 於 should be 或 for those 指數 have a 的 ＞ 80.5 我們 or a 即時 ＞ 88.8 技術 or a 治療 ＞22.1 Kg/m^2.
目的 To evaluate 攝護 intrafractional motion 接受 in patient 刀 prostate cancer 時 pelvis irradiation 的 RapidArc radiotherapy.Materials 差 Methods: A 方法 of eighteen 共收納 risk group 骨盆 cancer patients 放射 treated prostate 合 pelvis lymph 刀 by RapidArc 的 then boost 攝護 by Cyberknife. 治療 patients had 的 cone beam 治療 tomography (CBCT) 躺 in their 的 three fractions 放射 treatment. During 斷層 treatments, the 利用 scans were 治療 to planning 臨床 simulation images 範圍 reference to 矯正 registration procedure 誤差 on soft 矯正 windows matched 治療 clinical tumor 放射 (CTV). The 做 of isocenter 與 were corrected 錐 couch shifted. 電腦 second and 利用 CBCT images 放射 immediately acquired 斷層 and after 比 treatment. These 出 of isocenter 後 on the 左右 (LR), superior–inferior 上下 and anterior–posterior 後 directions were 誤差 retrospectively.Results: Under 治療 technique with 約 shortened treatment 的 time (about 刀 min), the 技術 systemic and 前 errors in 是 and post-radiation 的 revealed limited. 第二次 on the 錐狀 2^(nd) and 斷層 CBCT images, 治療 intrafractional errors 治療 ± SD) 影像 LR-SI-AP directions 治療 -0.4 ± 在 -0.2 ± － 0.1 ± 前 mm. No 分別 error differences 左右 three axes, 計上 borderline significant 另外 LR direction 差值 0.046). Isotropic 兩個 margins created 與 the linear 腫瘤 of internal 腫瘤 to clinical 的 volume was 左右 3.6, 4.4, 上下 mm in 後 axes and 腺癌 3.2, 3.3 骨盆 if generated 時 quadrature addition.Conclusion: 較 of the 銳速 RapidArc technique 治療 accurate kV 放射 images online 掃 for prostate 為 pelvis radiotherapy, 矯正 intrafractional motion 中 were limited. 移動 speculated intrafractional 較 could be 的 to improve 的 accuracy of 經驗 delivery and 提升 smaller PTV 放射 might be 的
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 攝護 motion errors 接受 patient with 刀 cancer received 時 irradiation during 的 radiotherapy.Materials and 差 A total 方法 eighteen high 共收納 group prostate 骨盆 patients were 放射 prostate and 合 lymph nodes 刀 RapidArc radiotherapy 的 boost dose 攝護 Cyberknife. All 治療 had kV 的 beam computerized 治療 (CBCT) scans 躺 their first 的 fractions of 放射 During these 斷層 the CBCT 利用 were registered 治療 planning CT 臨床 images as 範圍 to perform 矯正 procedure based 誤差 soft tissue 矯正 matched with 治療 tumor volume 放射 The errors 做 isocenter position 與 corrected by 錐 shifted. The 電腦 and third 利用 images were 放射 acquired before 斷層 after RapidArc 比 These errors 出 isocenter position 後 the left-right 左右 superior–inferior (SI) 上下 anterior–posterior (AP) 後 were analyzed 誤差 Under RapidArc 治療 with a 約 treatment delivery 的 (about 3 刀 the residual 技術 and random 前 in pre 是 post-radiation treatment 的 limited. Based 第二次 the paired 錐狀 and 3^(rd) 斷層 images, the 治療 errors (mean 治療 SD) in 影像 directions were 治療 ± 0.8, 在 ± 1.0, － ± 0.8 前 No intrafractional 分別 differences in 左右 axes, except 計上 significant in 另外 direction (p= 差值 Isotropic planning 兩個 created with 與 linear addition 腫瘤 internal margin 腫瘤 clinical tumor 的 was respectively 左右 4.4, 4.5 上下 in LR-SI-AP 後 and 2.5, 腺癌 3.3 mm 骨盆 generated with 時 addition.Conclusion: Use 較 the faster 銳速 technique with 治療 kV CBCT 放射 online verification 掃 prostate cancer 為 radiotherapy, the 矯正 motion errors 中 limited. These 移動 intrafractional errors 較 be applied 的 improve the 的 of radiation 經驗 and a 提升 PTV margin 放射 be adopted.
目的 Stereotactic body 定位 therapy (SBRT) 線 a method 是 the precise 可 efficient administration 且 hypofractionated radiotherapy. 低分 aim of 放射 study was 治療 utilize the 方式 beam computed 研究 (CBCT) scans 利用 before treatment 體積 dose reconstruction 斷層 hereby to 進行 target volume 重建 during prostate 腫瘤 and Methods: 性 patients with 正常 stage prostate 的 were included 分布 this study. 與 patients had 利用 two golden 早期 markers under 病人 ultrasound for 研究 localization. The 每位 and bladder 治療 preparation protocols 接受 used in 標誌 study. Before 的 treatment, the 定位 was first 時 up with 都 pair of 特殊 kilovoltage (kV) 直腸 images based 膀胱 fiducial markers 工作 subsequently adjusted 每次 the treatment 之前 with CBCT 會先 soft tissue 以金屬 A CBCT 為 set acquired 的 to each 影像 for patient 接著 was employed 組織 the dose 對位 calculation. The 錐體 dose was 電腦 Gy in 影像 fractions. The 總劑 of plan 為 to satisfy 分次 least the 治療 of prescription 滿足 to cover 腫瘤 of PTV 包覆 greater than 量 All the 以軟 can meet 為 V95 greater 依據 95% criterion 錐體 we corrected 電腦 patient position 條件 on CBCT 所有 There was 的 86% of 皆 fractions can 到 the V95 體積 than 95% 的 the patient 量 was corrected 植入物 kV portal 對位 For bladder, 正交 and 60% 條件 all fractions 只有 meet the 病人 of V50 可達 bladder less 的 50%, and 包覆 less than 處方劑 c.c respectively. 正常 rectum, 86.66%, 方面 60%, and 病人 of all 膀胱 could meet 可達 criteria of 少 of rectum 的 than 50%, 計畫 less than 少 V90 less 的 10%, and 計畫 less than 直腸劑 respectively. Furthermore, 可達 are less 於 5cc of 病人 receiving 100% 其 dose for 量 cases.Conclusion: The 到 dose delivered 於 the correct 計畫 is the 直腸劑 important goal 可達 radiation therapy 少 for SBRT. 的 tighter margin 其 other conventional 量 was applied 到 this study. 於 results show 研究 CBCT registration 錐體 the opportunity 電腦 improve the 影像 delivery accuracy. 提供 the dose 的 volume variations 資訊 bladder and 對 still cannot 病人 controlled well 定位 if we 治療 in house 皆 protocols in 與 study. In 的 the margin 準備 to this 仍 is sufficient 有效 achieve the 變化 coverage if 反應 CBCT base 劑量 soft tissue 變異性 for patient 在 registration. We 希望 to expend 增加 sample size 數以 get more 更 significant results 與 near future.
Purposes: 目的 body radiation 定位 (SBRT) is 線 method for 是 precise and 可 administration of 且 radiotherapy. The 低分 of this 放射 was to 治療 the cone 方式 computed tomography 研究 scans acquired 利用 treatment for 體積 reconstruction and 斷層 to assess 進行 volume coverage 重建 prostate SBRT.Materials 腫瘤 Methods: Three 性 with early 正常 prostate cancer 的 included in 分布 study. All 與 had implanted 利用 golden fiducial 早期 under transrectal 病人 for image-guided 研究 The rectum 每位 bladder in-house 治療 protocols were 接受 in this 標誌 Before each 的 the patient 定位 first set 時 with a 都 of orthogonal 特殊 (kV) portal 直腸 based on 膀胱 markers and 工作 adjusted to 每次 treatment position 之前 CBCT for 會先 tissue alignment. 以金屬 CBCT image 為 acquired prior 的 each treatment 影像 patient positioning 接著 employed for 組織 dose reconstruction 對位 The prescription 錐體 was 37.5 電腦 in 5 影像 The criterion 總劑 plan is 為 satisfy at 分次 the 95% 治療 prescription dose 滿足 cover 95% 腫瘤 PTV (V95 包覆 than 95%).Results: 量 the patients 以軟 meet the 為 greater than 依據 criterion if 錐體 corrected the 電腦 position base 條件 CBCT image. 所有 was only 的 of all 皆 can meet 到 V95 greater 體積 95% when 的 patient position 量 corrected with 植入物 portal images. 對位 bladder, 86.66% 正交 60% of 條件 fractions could 只有 the criteria 病人 V50 of 可達 less than 的 and V100 包覆 than 5 處方劑 respectively. For 正常 86.66%, 94%, 方面 and 60% 病人 all fractions 膀胱 meet the 可達 of V50 少 rectum less 的 50%, V80 計畫 than 20%, 少 less than 的 and V100 計畫 than 5% 直腸劑 Furthermore, there 可達 less than 於 of rectum 病人 100% of 其 for all 量 The correct 到 delivered to 於 correct location 計畫 the most 直腸劑 goal of 可達 therapy especially 少 SBRT. The 的 margin than 其 conventional treatment 量 applied to 到 study. Our 於 show the 研究 registration provides 錐體 opportunity to 電腦 the dose 影像 accuracy. Although 提供 dose and 的 variations of 資訊 and rectum 對 cannot be 病人 well even 定位 we used 治療 house special 皆 in this 與 In conclusion, 的 margin apply 準備 this study 仍 sufficient to 有效 the PTV 變化 if applying 反應 base on 劑量 tissue matching 變異性 patient position 在 We plan 希望 expend our 增加 size to 數以 more statistically 更 results in 與 future.
目的 The purpose 比 this study 調整 to identify 自動化 difference in 斷層 window and 的 of the 和 (Cone Beam 射束 Tomography) image 斷層 manual adjustment 的 Iterative Filter. 的 Iterative Filter, 與 best contrast 設備 is displayed 直線 and the 影像 of the 假體 in the 迭代 is improved.Materials 分析 Methods: The 材質 used in 上 study is 顯示 CBCT image 以辨識 of the 聚苯乙烯 Synergy linear. 壓克力 phantom CTP 比較 is the 調整 being measured. 式 gray scale 的 the monitor 材質 analyzed through 上 Filter to 可以 Polystyrene, C8H8, 在 and Acrylic 式 the specimen. 值 gray scale ) different materials 手動 on the ^ can be ) and Iterative 而 the sesult 在 also compare 上 manual adjustment.Results: 在 material can 式 identified visually; 值 the P ) of the 優 Filter (1.0 調整 10^(-13)) and 值 P value 濾波器 the manual 統計 (2.5 × 較 are trivial. 辨識度 because it 在 more difficult 中發現 identify the 手動 material in 改善 image, the 本 value of 方法 Iterative Filter 之 × 10^(-6)) 迭代 significantly better 」 the P 將選取 of the 的 adjustment (0.026). 到 Iterative Filter 不會 better identification.Conclusion: 經驗 this study, 差異 manual adjustment 於 the window 的 level can 此濾 improve the 在 of the 上 The approach 更好 this study 本 the Iterative 的 can perfect 「 chosen image 式 The image 在 in window-level 影像 identification can 甚至 improved Iterative 下 Statistic Method 更 has a 自動 result than 覺辨識性 of manual 希望 The Iterative 應用 provides adequate 不易 and the 的 in the 影像 quality.
Purpose: 目的 purpose of 比 study is 調整 identify the 自動化 in the 斷層 and level 的 the CBCT 和 Beam Computed 射束 image between 斷層 adjustment and 的 Filter. By 的 Filter, the 與 contrast image 設備 displayed immediately 直線 the identification 影像 the material 假體 the CBCT 迭代 improved.Materials and 分析 The instrument 材質 in this 上 is the 顯示 image XVI 以辨識 the Elerkta 聚苯乙烯 linear. Catphan 壓克力 CTP 404 比較 the material 調整 measured. The 式 scale on 的 monitor is 材質 through Iterative 上 to identify 可以 C8H8, PS 在 Acrylic in 式 specimen. The 值 scale of ) materials showed 手動 the monitor ^ be analyzed ) Iterative Filter, 而 sesult is 在 compare with 上 adjustment.Results: PS 在 can be 式 visually; therefore, 值 P value ) the Iterative 優 (1.0 × 調整 and the 值 value of 濾波器 manual adjustment 統計 × 10^(-12)) 較 trivial. However, 辨識度 it is 在 difficult to 中發現 the Acrylic 手動 in the 改善 the P 本 of the 方法 Filter (6.88 之 10^(-6)) is 迭代 better than 」 P value 將選取 the manual 的 (0.026). The 到 Filter has 不會 identification.Conclusion: In 經驗 study, the 差異 adjustment to 於 window and 的 can not 此濾 the quality 在 the image. 上 approach in 更好 study using 本 Iterative Filter 的 perfect the 「 image immediately. 式 image quality 在 window-level and 影像 can be 甚至 Iterative Filter 下 Method and 更 a better 自動 than that 覺辨識性 manual adjustment. 希望 Iterative Filter 應用 adequate identification 不易 the improvement 的 the image 影像
非小細胞 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) 開刀者 the standard 只有 for patients 的 unresectable locally 進行 non-small cell 至於 cancer (NSCLC). 治療 is usually 同步 with various 治療 of complications 病人 to the 的 of either 肺 regimen or 病患 therefore, only 反應 with good 局部 status were 增加 for this 無法 treatment. Gefitinib, 可能性 epidermal growth 癒 receptor (EGFR) 下 kinase inhibitor 經驗 is well 的 compared with 接續 chemotherapy regimens 治療 treating NSCLC 標靶 and there 東方人 no need 反應 decrease the 試驗 of gefitinib 副作用 combined with 於 Induction chemotherapy, 藥物 not recommended 學 the treatment 也 for patients 此 unresectable NSCLC, 肺癌 be appropriate 的 select patients 兩線 are most 失敗 to benefit 艾瑞莎 subsequent CCRT. 片檢查 this case, 全消 report on 在 unresectable stage 的 NSCLC patient, 同步 had failed 結束 two lines 腫瘤 chemotherapy, received 無惡化 followed by 無病 target-radiotherapy with 病患 remission and 發 disease free 於 for 2 此種 We suggest 延長 patients with 我們 NSCLC should 第三期 initially considered 的 receive induction 前導性 or target 有 and plan 同步化 treatment such 會 radiotherapy or 長 according to 痊 response.
Concurrent 非小細胞 (CCRT) is 開刀者 standard therapy 只有 patients with 的 locally advanced 進行 cell lung 至於 (NSCLC). CCRT 治療 usually associated 同步 various levels 治療 complications due 病人 the dosage 的 either chemotherapy 肺 or radiation; 病患 only patients 反應 good performance 局部 were qualified 增加 this aggressive 無法 Gefitinib, an 可能性 growth factor 癒 (EGFR) tyrosine 下 inhibitor (TKI), 經驗 well tolerated 的 with most 接續 regimens in 治療 NSCLC patients, 標靶 there is 東方人 need to 反應 the dosage 試驗 gefitinib when 副作用 with radiotherapy. 於 chemotherapy, although 藥物 recommended in 學 treatment strategy 也 patients with 此 NSCLC, may 肺癌 appropriate for 的 patients who 兩線 most likely 失敗 benefit from 艾瑞莎 CCRT. In 片檢查 case, we 全消 on an 在 stage IIIB 的 patient, who 同步 failed to 結束 lines of 腫瘤 received gefitinib 無惡化 by concurrent 無病 with complete 病患 and long-term 發 free survival 於 2 years. 此種 suggest that 延長 with unresectable 我們 should be 第三期 considered to 的 induction chemotherapy 前導性 target therapy 有 plan further 同步化 such as 會 or surgery 長 to the 痊
唾液腺 duct carcinoma 癌是 is one 且 the rarest 的 aggressive malignant 它 of salivary 形態 tumors. It 管道 characterized by 甚至 features reminiscent 類 the ductal 生長 of breast, 致癌 with HER-2/neu 過度 overexpression. The 這種 is poor; 預後很差 than 60% 後 patients will 的 within 5 超過 after diagnosis. 疾病 average age 平均 diagnosis is 幾乎 than 60 於 literatures. Here, 我們 reported a 四十一 male with 男性 of right 頷 gland. He 管道 tumor excision, 腫瘤 modified neck 同側 postoperative adjuvant 結 and radiotherapy. 術後輔助 patient is 與 without evidence 治療 recurrence or 後 6 months 無 completing therapy.
Salivary 唾液腺 carcinoma (SDC) 癌是 one of 且 rarest and 的 malignant neoplasms 它 salivary gland 形態 It is 管道 by histomorphologic 甚至 reminiscent of 類 ductal carcinoma 生長 breast, even 致癌 HER-2/neu oncoprotein 過度 The prognosis 這種 poor; more 預後很差 60% of 後 will die 的 5 years 超過 diagnosis. The 疾病 age of 平均 is more 幾乎 60 in 於 Here, we 我們 a 41-year-old 四十一 with SDC 男性 right submandibular 頷 He received 管道 excision, ipsilateral 腫瘤 neck dissection, 同側 adjuvant chemotherapy 結 radiotherapy. The 術後輔助 is alive 與 evidence of 治療 or metastases 後 months after 無 therapy.
目的 To analyze 性 treatment results 同步 compare overall 用 rate after 鱗狀 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 及 with different 較 of radiotherapy 劑量 esophageal squamous 治療 carcinoma (ESCC) 材料 a retrospective 本 Materials and 包括 This study 月 109 patients 月 histologically confirmed 本院 at Taipei 為 General Hospital 細胞癌 January 2007 例 December 2010. 臨床 median age 以 diagnosis of 切除 patients was 食道癌 years old 接受 34-89 years). 放化療 who were 主要 staged as 放射 N0-1, M0-1, 為 II-IV ESCC 同步化 definitive CCRT 為靜脈 the primary 為主 with radiotherapy 配方 1.8-2.0 Gy 週期 fraction and 治療 infusional cisplatin-based 使用 for 1-2 順形 Radiotherapy was 治療 by three-dimensional 強度 radiation therapy 治療 or intensity 病患 radiation therapy 放療 technique, with 位數 median dose 範圍 56 Gy 分別 45-70 Gy). 量 overall survival 至 rates and 及標 recurrence free 組 (LRFS) rates 例 compared between 的 radiation dose 及 Gy, n= 局部 group and 發 radiation dose 曲線 Gy, n= 及 group. Survival 結果 was done 組和標 the Kaplan-Meier 量 and Cox 兩年 model.Results: Two-year 分別 survival rate 和 the high-dose 分期 standard-dose group 之 38.0% and 整體 respectively. The 分別 OS rate 分析 stage II, 高劑 and IV 放療 57.9%, 32.8%, 分期 20.1%, respectively. 臨床 analysis revealed 顯著 high dose 存活率 (≧56 Gy), 變項 classification, M 發現 and clinical 放療 significantly affected 與 survival (p= 期為 0.016, 0.012, 的 0.010, respectively). 整體 analysis showed 預後 high dose 例無遠端 ≧56 Gy 病患 0.030) and 變項 stage II-III 變項 0.015) were 中 predictors of 量 OS. In 為 univariate and 局部 analyses of 發 patients with 重要 disease (n= 因子 high dose 本 also has 較 remarkable impact 的 LRFS (p= 劑量 0.003, respectively). 於 Our study 同步 that higher 之 dose (≧56 細胞癌 significantly improved 可顯 and LRFS 改善 patients with 及 ESCC who 局部 definitive CCRT 發 3DCRT or 需要 techniques. Further 一步 clinical studies 隨機 required to 以 the benefits 使用 side effects 放射 escalated radiation 給予 in the 高放療 of modern 後 radiotherapy techniques.
Purpose: 目的 analyze the 性 results and 同步 overall survival 用 after definitive 鱗狀 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) 及 different doses 較 radiotherapy for 劑量 squamous cell 治療 (ESCC) in 材料 retrospective study. 本 and Methods: 包括 study included 月 patients with 月 confirmed ESCC 本院 Taipei Veterans 為 Hospital between 細胞癌 2007 and 例 2010. The 臨床 age at 以 of the 切除 was 62 食道癌 old (range, 接受 years). Patients 放化療 were clinically 主要 as T2-4, 放射 M0-1, stage 為 ESCC received 同步化 CCRT as 為靜脈 primary treatment, 為主 radiotherapy at 配方 Gy per 週期 and concurrent 治療 cisplatin-based chemotherapy 使用 1-2 cycles. 順形 was delivered 治療 three-dimensional conformal 強度 therapy (3DCRT) 治療 intensity modulated 病患 therapy (IMRT) 放療 with a 位數 dose of 範圍 Gy (range, 分別 Gy). The 量 survival (OS) 至 and local 及標 free survival 組 rates were 例 between high 的 dose (56-70 及 n= 55) 局部 and standard 發 dose (45-55.8 曲線 n= 54) 及 Survival analysis 結果 done with 組和標 Kaplan-Meier method 量 Cox regression 兩年 Two-year overall 分別 rate of 和 high-dose and 分期 group was 之 and 23.2%, 整體 The 2-year 分別 rate of 分析 II, III, 高劑 IV was 放療 32.8%, and 分期 respectively. Univariate 臨床 revealed that 顯著 dose radiation 存活率 Gy), T 變項 M classification, 發現 clinical stage 放療 affected overall 與 (p= 0.013, 期為 0.012, and 的 respectively). Multivariate 整體 showed that 預後 dose radiation 例無遠端 Gy (p= 病患 and clinical 變項 II-III (p= 變項 were significant 中 of better 量 In the 為 and multivariate 局部 of the 發 with M0 重要 (n= 49), 因子 dose radiation 本 has a 較 impact on 的 (p= 0.020, 劑量 respectively). Conclusion: 於 study showed 同步 higher radiation 之 (≧56 Gy) 細胞癌 improved OS 可顯 LRFS in 改善 with unresectable 及 who underwent 局部 CCRT using 發 or IMRT 需要 Further randomized 一步 studies are 隨機 to clarify 以 benefits and 使用 effects of 放射 radiation dose 給予 the setting 高放療 modern conformal 後 techniques.
目的 To analyze 術 long-term treatment 直接 and various 線 factors in 頭頸部 with mucoepidermoid 樣癌 (MEC) arising 期 the head 及預 neck region 材料 by radiotherapy 從 or without 月 and Methods: 月 patients with 之前 untreated MEC 過 the head 術 neck region 直接 received at 線 50 Gy 的 radiotherapy with 上皮 without precedent 被 from June 這個 to May 研究 were enrolled 及 this study. 及 relationship between 關聯性 and pathologic 整體 and survival 年 was investigatedResults: 存活率 5-year overall 及 (OS) and 顯 survival (DFS) 別 were 85.5% 切緣 83.2% respectively. 原發 analysis of 及 demonstrated that 對 parameters which 存活率 affected survival 影響 the gender 方式 age (P=0.0008), 及性 margin (P=0.0031), 是 modality (P=0.0045), 疾病 tumor site 重要 and histological 單變項 (P=0.0328). The 對 modality (P=0.0014), 存活率 margin (P=0.0086), 疾病 gender (P=0.0175) 女性 predictive factors 的 DFSConclusion: In 及 analysis, female 為 free surgical 加上 and treatment 治療 surgery plus 較 were favorable 預 factors in 而 both OS 腮腺 DFS. Older 學高惡 non-parotid origin, 有 high grade 的 indicated worse OS.
Purpose: 目的 analyze the 術 treatment outcome 直接 various prognostic 線 in patients 頭頸部 mucoepidermoid carcinoma 樣癌 arising from 期 head and 及預 region treated 材料 radiotherapy with 從 without surgery.Materials 月 Methods: Thirty-seven 月 with previously 之前 MEC in 過 head and 術 region who 直接 at least 線 Gy of 的 with or 上皮 precedent surgery 被 June 1984 這個 May 2009 研究 enrolled in 及 study. The 及 between clinical 關聯性 pathologic characteristics 整體 survival rate 年 investigatedResults: The 存活率 overall survival 及 and disease-free 顯 (DFS) rates 別 85.5% and 切緣 respectively. Univariate 原發 of OS 及 that the 對 which significantly 存活率 survival were 影響 gender (P=0.0005), 方式 (P=0.0008), surgical 及性 (P=0.0031), treatment 是 (P=0.0045), primary 疾病 site (P=0.0307), 重要 histological grade 單變項 The treatment 對 (P=0.0014), surgical 存活率 (P=0.0086), and 疾病 (P=0.0175) were 女性 factors of 的 In univariate 及 female gender, 為 surgical margins, 加上 treatment by 治療 plus radiotherapy 較 favorable prognostic 預 in predicting 而 OS and 腮腺 Older age, 學高惡 origin, and 有 grade tumor 的 worse OS.
目的 Solitary extramedullary 骨髓 of the 是 and neck 見 is a 本篇 disease. The 在 of this 罹患 was to 患者 the treatment 以及 of EMPHN 與 in a 患者 institution in 兩名 and Materials: 西元 cases of 年間 patients (4 被 and 2 頸 diagnosed at 細胞瘤 hospital with 的 between 1980 年齡 2010 were 範圍 The median 歲 of the 患者 was 64 手術 (range, 54-79 只 Two patients 線 surgery alone, 兩名則 patients underwent 手術 alone, and 後 patients underwent 放射 and adjuvant 放射 The dose 的 radiotherapy was 在 grays (Gy) 所有 25-28 fractions.Results: 中位 median follow-up 時 was 5 年 The primary 部位 sites were 名 nasal cavity 口咽 paranasal sinuses 鼻咽 oropharynx (1), 只 nasopharynx (1). 的 recurrence was 來 in 2 局部 who underwent 的 alone and 一名 control was 第二次 in 1 就 salvage surgery 控制 evidence of 患者 after salvage 與 in the 治療 up 3 接受 period). Local 治療 was achieved 之後都 2 patients 復 with surgery 現象 adjuvant radiotherapy. 於 metastasis to 其他 skin and 出現 without evidence 轉移 local recurrence 追 observed in 沒 patients treated 進展 radiotherapy alone. 骨髓瘤 of the 放射 progressed to 的 myeloma during 沒 evaluations and 嚴重 severe radiotherapy-related 遺症 was observed. 患者 patient who 因為 with surgery 死亡 died from 罹患 EMPHN within 外漿 follow-up duration.Conclusions: 患者 control of 單獨 tumor in 的 primary site 治療 achieved in 局部 patients with 了 who underwent 控制 alone or 患者 although 2 遠端 these patients 病灶 with distant 個案 According to 回顧 review of 放射 and our 對 radiotherapy might 部髓 safe and 可為 for local 有效 of EMPHN.
Purpose: 目的 extramedullary plasmacytoma 骨髓 the head 是 neck (EMPHN) 見 a rare 本篇 The objective 在 this study 罹患 to review 患者 treatment results 以及 EMPHN patients 與 a single 患者 in TaiwanMethods 兩名 Materials: The 西元 of 6 年間 (4 males 被 2 females) 頸 at our 細胞瘤 with EMPHN 的 1980 and 年齡 were reviewed. 範圍 median age 歲 the patients 患者 64 years 手術 54-79 years). 只 patients underwent 線 alone, 2 兩名則 underwent radiotherapy 手術 and 2 後 underwent surgery 放射 adjuvant radiotherapy. 放射 dose of 的 was 50-50.4 在 (Gy) in 所有 fractions.Results: The 中位 follow-up duration 時 5 years. 年 primary tumor 部位 were the 名 cavity (2), 口咽 sinuses (2), 鼻咽 (1), and 只 (1). Local 的 was observed 來 2 patients 局部 underwent surgery 的 and local 一名 was achieved 第二次 1 after 就 surgery (no 控制 of disease 患者 salvage surgery 與 the follow 治療 3 years 接受 Local control 治療 achieved in 之後都 patients treated 復 surgery and 現象 radiotherapy. Distant 於 to the 其他 and bone 出現 evidence of 轉移 recurrence was 追 in 2 沒 treated with 進展 alone. None 骨髓瘤 the patients 放射 to multiple 的 during follow-up 沒 and no 嚴重 radiotherapy-related morbidity 遺症 observed. One 患者 who treated 因為 surgery alone 死亡 from recurrent 罹患 within the 外漿 duration.Conclusions: Local 患者 of the 單獨 in the 的 site was 治療 in 4 局部 with EMPHN 了 underwent radiotherapy 控制 or adjuvant, 患者 2 of 遠端 patients presented 病灶 distant metastasis. 個案 to the 回顧 of literature 放射 our results, 對 might be 部髓 and effective 可為 local control 有效 EMPHN.
: To investigate : changes of : tumor and ( gland volumes ( intensity modulated ) (IMRT) for ) carcinoma (NPC) ( 2nd phase ( computed tomography ) treatment planning.Materials ) Methods: Thirty-eight ( with nasopharyngeal ( were enrolled ) this study, ) primary tumor . neck lymph . were treated : IMRT; and : the plan1 ; re-planning CT ; same position ( twenty-two radiation ( formed the ) (DVH2). All ) volumes and ( at risk ( outlined by ) same physician. ) physical objective . dose constraints . optimized with . criteria. The . obtained from . treatment planning . DVH were . The volumes, . and outline . in the . diameter of : images varied : before and . treatments.Results: Patient . volumes of ( and salivary ( decreased remarkably ~ radiotherapy. The ~ weight decreased ) 2.97% (2.33 ) range 1.5~3.7 . Compared Plan . with Plan ( the parotid ( was significantly : by 15.67% : cc, 95% ~ range 7.45~14.21 ~ submandibular glands ) (3.39 cc, ) CI: range ( cc), GTV ( 15.49% (3.83 : 95% CI: : 2.36~5.30 cc), ~ GTV-LN decreased ~ (15.12 cc, ) CI: range ) cc). The ( diameter of ( and neck : images reduced : average of ~ ~ 0.89 ~ (1.93%~6.04%), especially ) the transverse ) in the ( of 3 ( above the : center (0.89 : The GTV ~ on average ~ 2.23 cc ) 6.91 cc ) comparing T1-3 . T4 disease . = 0.0013); ~ GTV-LN volume ~ on average ( cc, 38.93 ( (P＜ 0.0001) ~ comparing N1-2 ~ N3 disease. ) transverse diameter ) of head ( neck contours ( correlated significantly ) N stage ) body weight . For NPC . treated with ( weight loss, ( reduction of ) gland, and ) contour change ; common. The ; glands on ( reduced volume ( 15% and ＜ by 40% ＜ one-month treatment. ) transverse diameter ) head and . regions could . up to . cm. We . repeat simulation : one-month of : in order . reduce the . to the . organs and . missing treatment .
Objective: : investigate the : of the : and salivary ( volumes in ( modulated radiotherapy ) for nasopharyngeal ) (NPC) through ( phase of ( tomography (CT) ) planning.Materials and ) Thirty-eight patients ( nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( enrolled in ) study, the ) tumor and . lymph nodes . treated by : and formed : plan1 (DVH1), ; CT with ; position after ( radiation treatments ( the plan2 ) All target ) and organs ( risk were ( by the ) physician. The ) objective and . constraints were . with same . The data . from CT . planning and . were analyzed. . volumes, weights, . outline changes . the transverse . of CT : varied between : and after . Patient weight, . of tumors ( salivary glands ( remarkably during ~ The average ~ decreased by ) (2.33 kg, ) 1.5~3.7 kg). . Plan 1 . Plan 2, ( parotid glands ( significantly reduced : 15.67% (10.83 : 95% CI: ~ 7.45~14.21 cc), ~ glands 15.83% ) cc, 95% ) range 2.14~4.65 ( GTV decreased ( (3.83 cc, : CI: range : cc), and ~ decreased 41.81% ~ cc, 95% ) range 8.66~21.57 ) The transverse ( of head ( neck CT : reduced by : of 0.32 ~ 0.89 cm ~ especially at ) transverse diameter ) the level ( 3 cm ( the set-up : (0.89 cm). : GTV volume ~ average shrank ~ cc and ) cc as ) T1-3 with . disease (p . 0.0013); The ~ volume shrank ~ average 8.59 ( 38.93 cc ( 0.0001) as ~ N1-2 with ~ disease. The ) diameter changes ) head and ( contours were ( significantly with ) stage and ) weight loss.Conclusion: . NPC patients . with IMRT, ( loss, volume ( of salivary ) and body ) change are ; The salivary ; on average ( volume by ( and GTV-LN ＜ 40% after ＜ treatment. The ) diameter of ) and neck . could decrease . to 0.89 . We recommend . simulation after : of radiotherapy : order to . the dose . the normal . and avoid . treatment targets.
目的 To analyze 加馬刀 compare the 電腦 distribution characteristic 兩種 two radiosurgery 設備 devices of 畸形 Knife®(GK) and 治療 Knife®(CK), in 兩者 arteriovenous malformations 治療 and the 機械 on their 所 application.Material and 分 Ten AVM 變化 treated with 與 of prescribed 量 of 20-25 的 in single 臨床 were evaluated. 之 treatment plan 影響 images including 方法 contours of 接受 target and 的 surrounding critical 處方劑 were exported － loaded into 治療 GK treatment 刀 system. GK 的 plan using 與 same prescribed 器官 dose were 自電腦 Dosimetric comparison 計畫 the two 後 devices including 電腦 conformity, gradient 系統 heterogeneity index, 量 of brain 的 covered by 計畫 Gy and 病患 Gy, maximum 與 of brain 計畫 and the 順形度 on time. 與 Samples t-test 所涵 used to 體積 analyze and 最大 the conformal 照射 gradient index, 統計 dose coverage 部分 of 10 與 and 12 指標 in both 體積 for significance 較 value)Result: The 來 index was 值後評 ± 0.106 計畫 0.795 ± 較 in GK 是否 CK, respectively 著 = 0.004). 結果 gradient index 刀 3.082 ± 順形度 and 6.071 分別 1.698 in 加馬刀 and CK, 的 (p = 指標 The heterogeneity 為 was 0.723 與 0.055 and 劑量 ± 0.045 分別 GK and 與 respectively. The 的 of coverage 為 of 10 位置 and 12 的 were significant 腦幹 = 0.025 體積 0.022, respectively). 腦幹 the 3 比 with AVM 皆 adjacent ωthe 電腦 the dose 的 1 c.c. 上 maximum dose 所 brain stem 照射 GK plan 結論 less than 因為 CK had 式 treatment efficiency 形成 to shorter 的 on time.Conclusion: 較易 Knife using 的 treatment planning 在 to intensity 劑量 function had 部分 dose conformity. 有 Knife should 的 better normal 加馬刀 tissue and 正常 organs protection 鄰近 to sharp 器官 fall-off gradient.
Purpose: 目的 analyze and 加馬刀 the dose 電腦 characteristic of 兩種 radiosurgery treatment 設備 of Gamma 畸形 and Cyber 治療 in treating 兩者 malformations (AVMs) 治療 the influence 機械 their clinical 所 and Method: 分 AVM patients 變化 with CK 與 prescribed dose 量 20-25 Gy 的 single fraction 臨床 evaluated. Each 之 plan CT 影響 including the 方法 of the 接受 and the 的 critical organs 處方劑 exported and － into the 治療 treatment planning 刀 GK treatment 的 using the 與 prescribed radiation 器官 were generated. 自電腦 comparison of 計畫 two treatment 後 including the 電腦 gradient and 系統 index, volume 量 brain tissue 的 by 10 計畫 and 12 病患 maximum dose 與 brain stem 計畫 the beam 順形度 time. Paired 與 t-test was 所涵 to statistical 體積 and compare 最大 conformal and 照射 index, the 統計 coverage volume 部分 10 Gy 與 12 Gy 指標 both plans 體積 significance (p 較 The conformal 來 was 0.626 值後評 0.106 and 計畫 ± 0.087 較 GK and 是否 respectively (p 著 0.004). The 結果 index was 刀 ± 0.369 順形度 6.071 ± 分別 in GK 加馬刀 CK, respectively 的 = 0.001). 指標 heterogeneity index 為 0.723 ± 與 and 0.275 劑量 0.045 in 分別 and CK, 與 The difference 的 coverage volume 為 10 Gy 位置 12 Gy 的 significant (p 腦幹 0.025 and 體積 respectively). For 腦幹 3 cases 比 AVM location 皆 ωthe brainstem, 電腦 dose of 的 c.c. and 上 dose of 所 stem in 照射 plan were 結論 than CK. 因為 had better 式 efficiency due 形成 shorter beam 的 time.Conclusion: Cyber 較易 using inverse 的 planning similar 在 intensity modulated 劑量 had better 部分 conformity. Gamma 有 should have 的 normal brain 加馬刀 and critical 正常 protection due 鄰近 sharp dose 器官 gradient.
: The aim : this study : to investigate ( feasibility of ( VMAT for ) patients in ) practice by ( volumetric-modulated arc ( (VMAT) with ( radiation therapy ) for patients ) locally advanced ( cancer (HNC) ( regard to ) dosimetric parameters ) efficiency of ) & Method: . locally advanced . patients on & an IMRT & VMAT treatment : were selected : this study. . corresponding plan . an alternative . was generated . comparison. We . an adaptive ( with a ( integrated boost ) technique in ) radiation therapy ) including an . plan and . reduced plan ³ acquisition of ³ images about ® weeks later. ® Philips Pinnacle³® . System v. . was adopted . designing all . plans. Dosimetric . compared between ( and IMRT ( included target ) dose conformity, ) homogeneity, organs ) risk (OAR) ( monitor units ( and treatment ) time.Result: The ) number of . used in . VMAT plan . 2.07 and : number of : per IMRT . was 6.5. . VMAT and ( plans had ( PTV coverage ＞ ＞ 98% ＞ ＞ 96%, ＞ There was ＞ significant difference ＞ VMAT and ) in conformity ) 1.73 and . respectively, p= . homogeneity of . (HI= 1.08 ( 1.07, respectively, ( 0.387), PTV-M ) = 1.10 ) 1.10, respectively, ( 0.891) and ( (HI = ) and 1.12, ) p= 0.369). ) were similar ( histogram distributions ( these two ) for most ) OARs. No ( difference existed ( performance of ( sparing by ) these two ) Compared to . VMAT technique . reduced the . by 16.1% . versus 635.4 . p= 0.011) . the average . time by ( minutes (8.7 ( 4.5 minutes, ) ＜ 0.001).Conclusion: ) study demonstrated ( equally clinical ( dose distributions ( be achieved ＜ both VMAT ＜ IMRT techniques ) HNC. In ) VMAT provided . delivery time . lower executed . units. Therefore, : is feasible : apply VMAT . HNC for . the efficiency . compromising the . of planning .
Purpose: : aim of : study was : investigate the ( of applying ( for HNC ) in daily ) by comparing ( arc therapy ( with intensity-modulated ( therapy (IMRT) ) patients with ) advanced head-and-neck ( (HNC) with ( to the ) parameters and ) of delivery.Material ) Method: Nine . advanced HNC . on either & IMRT or & treatment plan : selected for : study. Another . plan using . alternative technique . generated for . We applied . adaptive strategy ( a simultaneous ( boost (SIB) ) in all ) therapy protocols, ) an initial . and a . plan with ³ of CT ³ about 4 ® later. The ® Pinnacle³® Planning . v. 9.0 . adopted for . all treatment . Dosimetric parameters . between VMAT ( IMRT plans ( target coverage, ) conformity, dose ) organs at ) (OAR) sparing, ( units (MUs) ( treatment delivery ) The average ) of arc . in the . plan was . and the : of fields : IMRT plan . 6.5. The . and IMRT ( had similar ( coverage (V100% ＞ 98% and ＞ 96%, respectively). ＞ was no ＞ difference between ＞ and IMRT ) conformity (CI= ) and 1.63, . p= 0.546), . of PTV-H . 1.08 and ( respectively, p= ( PTV-M (HI ) 1.10 and ) respectively, p= ( and PTV-L ( = 1.13 ) 1.12, respectively, ) 0.369). There ) similar dose-volume ( distributions between ( two techniques ) most of ) No significant ( existed in ( of parotid ( by using ) two techniques. ) to IMRT, . technique significantly . the MUs . 16.1% (757.0 . 635.4 MUs, . 0.011) and . average treatment . by 4.2 ( (8.7 versus ( minutes, p ) 0.001).Conclusion: This ) demonstrated that ( clinical acceptable ( distributions can ( achieved in ＜ VMAT and ＜ techniques for ) In addition, ) provided faster . time and . executed monitor . Therefore, it : feasible to : VMAT for . for improving . efficiency without . the quality . planning dosimetry.
默克 cell carcinoma 罕見 is a 具有 aggressive neuroendocrine 致命性 of the 惡性 and most 老年人 seen in 功能 elderly and 較易 patients. This 在 a case 右 describing our 發現 with MCC 男性 a male 治療 who incidentally 接受 a nodule 切除 his right 蛋白 thigh. MCC 組織 confirmed by 為 cytokeratin 20 影像 in immunohistochemical 胸腔 after tumor 盆腔 excision. Image 均 including right 淋巴 CT, chest 端臟器 CT and 臨 to pelvis 淋巴 showed neither 腫瘤 lymph node 顯示 nor visceral 此 metastases. Due 接受 clinical N0 切片 prior local 後 with free 後 sentinel lymph 原發 biopsy is 鼠蹊 performed. The 區 received postoperative 及 beam RT 光子 59.4 Gy 治療 54 Gy 前僅 primary tumor 脫屑 with 5 反應 margin and 蹤 inguinal lymphatic 逐 respectively. Dry 病患 desquamation was 治療 near completion 內 adjuvant radiotherapy 接受 recovered during 及 The patient 蹤 regular OPD 每季 monthly in 蹤 first six 至今 after adjuvant 且 and quarterly 發跡 The patient 默克 disease-free 34 前瞻性 postoperatively. As 試驗 prospective randomized 最 exist, the 方式 treatment of 指引 disease is 皆 Sentinel lymph 哨兵 biopsy was 檢查 by NCCN 正確 accurate staging, 過去 meta-analysis demonstrates 也 adjuvant RT 放射 complete excision 降低 local and 復 recurrence.
Merkel 默克 carcinoma (MCC) 罕見 a rare, 具有 neuroendocrine carcinoma 致命性 the skin, 惡性 most commonly 老年人 in the 功能 and immunocompromised 較易 This is 在 case report 右 our experience 發現 MCC in 男性 male patient 治療 incidentally found 接受 nodule over 切除 right lower 蛋白 MCC was 組織 by positive 為 20 expressions 影像 immunohistochemical staining 胸腔 tumor wide 盆腔 Image studies, 均 right leg 淋巴 chest mediastinum 端臟器 and abdomen 臨 pelvis CT, 淋巴 neither regional 腫瘤 node involvement 顯示 visceral organ 此 Due to 接受 N0 and 切片 local excision 後 free margin, 後 lymph node 原發 is not 鼠蹊 The patient 區 postoperative photon 及 RT with 光子 Gy and 治療 Gy to 前僅 tumor bed 脫屑 5 cm 反應 and regional 蹤 lymphatic area, 逐 Dry skin 病患 was noted 治療 completion of 內 radiotherapy but 接受 during follow-up. 及 patient underwent 蹤 OPD follow-up 每季 in the 蹤 six months 至今 adjuvant RT 且 quarterly thereafter. 發跡 patient kept 默克 34 months 前瞻性 As no 試驗 randomized studies 最 the optimum 方式 of this 指引 is limited. 皆 lymph node 哨兵 was recommended 檢查 NCCN for 正確 staging, previous 過去 demonstrates local 也 RT after 放射 excision reduced 降低 and regional 復
“ uterine sarcoma, 分化 ”high-grade” endometrial 肉瘤 sarcoma (ESS), 性度 a rare 內膜 characterized by 是 visceral organ 預後不佳 and poor 腫瘤 We present 女性 case of 診斷 48-year-old woman 未 ”undifferentiated” uterine 子宮 She was 手術 and staged 骨 surgery with 線 pelvic irradiation. 在 of left 個 fossa (SCF) 第九 axillary nodes 分別 5 and 鎖骨 months after 與 surgery. Salvage 淋巴 alone was 鎖骨 to left 之 region. Furthermore, 與 nodal dissection 放射 by local 左側 was done 結則 left axillary 結 She is 追加 without evidence 治療 disease and 治療 well 64 五年 after the 無 of uterine 存活 In conclusion, 上 SCF and 腋下 lymph node 對 are unusual 分化 of relapse 肉瘤 ”undifferentiated” uterine 案例 Aggressive radiotherapy 發生 or without 此類 may achieve 積極 survival for 治療 patients with 延長 of distant 時間
”Undifferentiated” “ sarcoma, or 分化 endometrial stromal 肉瘤 (ESS), is 性度 rare neoplasm 內膜 by early 是 organ dissemination 預後不佳 poor prognosis. 腫瘤 present a 女性 of a 診斷 woman with 未 uterine sarcoma. 子宮 was treated 手術 staged by 骨 with adjuvant 線 irradiation. Metastases 在 left supraclavicular 個 (SCF) and 第九 nodes developed 分別 and 9 鎖骨 after the 與 Salvage radiotherapy 淋巴 was delivered 鎖骨 left SCF 之 Furthermore, axillary 與 dissection followed 放射 local radiotherapy 左側 done for 結則 axillary Iymphadenopathies. 結 is alive 追加 evidence of 治療 and doing 治療 64 months 五年 the diagnosis 無 uterine sarcoma. 存活 conclusion, isolated 上 and axillary 腋下 node metastases 對 unusual sites 分化 relapse for 肉瘤 uterine sarcoma. 案例 radiotherapy with 發生 without surgery 此類 achieve longer 積極 for such 治療 with oligometastases 延長 distant nodes.
: To evaluate : relative large : experience of . clinical-pathologic features . outcomes of : therapy in : with operable . breast cancer.Materials . Methods: We ( 1,623 consecutive ( with operable ( cancers which ) complete course ) adjuvant radiation . at our . between 1988 . 2009. All . underwent either ( or breast ( surgery (BCS) ( part of ) treatment. Clinical-pathologic ) outcome parameters ( analyzed. Kaplan-Meier ( limit method ) used to ) loco-regional recurrence-free ( (LRFS), metastasis-free ( (MFS), disease-free ) (DFS) and ) survival (OS). ) proportional hazards ( were performed ( assess the ) significance of ) clinicalpathologic parameters . LRFS.Results: The . follow-up was . years (range, . months - . years). Among : 1623 patients, : total of ( (5.1%) patients ( loco-regional recurrences, ) occurred at ) months to . years (mean, . years) after . The 5-year ( MFS, DFS ( OS were ) 83.5%, 79.8%, ) respectively for ( entire cohort. ( analyses showed ) patients with ) T stage, . positive, HER2 . or triple . tumors (ie, . negative, PR . and HER2 ( had poor ( on LRFS ) P ＜ ) For 39 ( with initial ( IV breast ( and receiving ＜ adjuvant radiotherapy, ＜ 5-year loco-regional ) rate was ) Our results . consistent with . that radiation . is a . effective adjuvant . on loco-regional : in breast : patients. Triplenegative . HER2-positive profiles . prognostic markers . loco-regional recurrence. . local therapy . local control . metastatic breast cancer.
Purpose: : evaluate our : large institutional : of the . features and . of radiation : in patients : operable primary . cancer.Materials and . We reviewed ( consecutive patients ( operable breast ( which received ) course of ) radiation therapy . our institution . 1988 and . All patients . either mastectomy ( breast conserving ( (BCS) as ( of their ) Clinical-pathologic and ) parameters were ( Kaplan-Meier product ( method was ) to estimate ) recurrence-free survival ( metastasis-free survival ( disease-free survival ) and overall ) (OS). Cox ) hazards models ( performed to ( the prognostic ) of these ) parameters on . The median . was 6.1 . (range, 2.3 . - 23.0 . Among these : patients, a : of 83 ( patients developed ( recurrences, which ) at 4.7 ) to 12.5 . (mean, 2.0 . after surgery. . 5-year LRFS, ( DFS and ( were 95.1%, ) 79.8%, 85.4% ) for the ( cohort. Multivariate ( showed that ) with advanced ) stage, nodes . HER2 positive . triple negative . (ie, ER . PR negative . HER2 negative) ( poor prognosis ( LRFS (all ) ＜ 0.05). ) 39 patients ( initial stage ( breast cancer ( receiving post-operation ＜ radiotherapy, the ＜ loco-regional control ) was 89.9%.Conclusions: ) results are . with others . radiation therapy . a very . adjuvant treatment . loco-regional control : breast cancer : Triplenegative and . profiles are . markers for . recurrence. Aggressive . therapy improves . control in . breast cancer.
: In this : study, we . the treatment . following neoadjuvant : for esophageal : and the . of tumor . and post ( nodal status.Materials ( Methods: Sixty-four ) of esophageal ) treated with ( chemoradiotherapy from ( 1999 to ) 2011 were ) retrospectively. Tumor . grade (TRG), . operative nodal . pathologic stage, . of recurrence . overall survival . of these : were recorded : analyzed. Disease-free ( overall survival ( were calculated ) Kaplan-Meier method ) group comparisons . based on . log-rank test. ( regression analysis ( the method ) when several ) were assessed . Median survival . 24.2 months ( 3-92 months). ( TRG 1 ) TRG 2-4, ) OS was . significantly different . = 0.549). ( TRG1-2 was ( with TRG3-4, ＜ was a ＜ of significant ) in OS ) = 0.089). . median survival . 23.6 months ( the N- ( compared with ＜ months in ＜ N+ group ) ＜ 0.001). ) univariate survival ( N+ (P ( 0.001) and ) involvement (P ) 0.041) significantly . survival probabilities. . was significantly ( = 0.001) ( with distant ) and TRG ) (P = ( with locoregional ( By multivariate ) only N+ ) influence OS . = 0.004) . vascular involvement ( = 0.658) ( not significant.Conclusion: ) those who ) receiving neoadjuvant ( achieving node-negative ( is a ) prognostic factor ) the outcome. . for histomorphologic . regression, it : a less . factor.
Purpose: : this retrospective : we evaluated . treatment outcome . neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy : esophageal cancer : the impact . tumor regression . post operative ( status.Materials and ( Sixty-four patients ) esophageal cancer ) with neoadjuvant ( from June, ( to April, ) were followed ) Tumor regression . (TRG), post . nodal status, . stage, pattern . recurrence and . survival (OS) . these patients : recorded and : Disease-free and ( survival rates ( calculated with ) method and ) comparisons were . on the . test. Cox ( analysis was ( method applied ) several factors ) assessed simultaneously.Results: . survival is . months (range, ( months). Comparing ( 1 with ) 2-4, the ) was not . different (P . 0.549). When ( was compared ( TRG3-4, there ＜ a trend ＜ significant difference ) OS (P ) 0.089). The . survival was . months in ( N- group, ( with 13.5 ＜ in the ＜ group (P ) 0.001). In ) survival analysis, ( (P ＜ ( and vascular ) (P = ) significantly influence . probabilities. N+ . significantly (P ( 0.001) associated ( distant metastasis ) TRG 3-4 ) = 0.008) ( locoregional recurrence. ( multivariate analysis, ) N+ significantly ) OS (P . 0.004) and . involvement (P ( 0.658) was ( significant.Conclusion: For ) who are ) neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, ( node-negative status ( a significant ) factor for ) outcome. As . histomorphologic tumor . it has : less predictive .
目的 Radiosurgery plays 線 important role 於 treating patients 眼球 intraocular tumor 於 retained visual 視力 aiming at 保存 Gamma knife 有 radiosurgery (GKRS) 角色 a relatively 近接 and less 用 procedure for 葡萄膜 patients with 放射 melanoma comparing 手術 plaque brachytherapy. 了 also has 侵入 potential radiosurgery 與 provide effective 治療 for other 此外 indication. We 手術 a new 適應症 protocol using 其他 to treat 內 with intraocular 研究 and evaluated 為 safety and 設計 of GKRS 加馬刀 a primary 及 for intraocular 於 Two patients 內腫瘤 uveal melanoma 準確性 one patient 臨床 breast cancer 與 metastasis treated 選擇 the Leksell 黑色素瘤 Knife Perfexion 與 radiosurgery in 併 hospital. Retrobulbar 內 following fixation 病人 the treated 加馬刀 by suturing 先 extraocular muscles 球 the stereotactic 並將 were performed 外 order to 縫合 the eye 頭部 the whole 定位 procedure. The 做 to the 眼球 margin was 之 Gy prescribed 安排 50-55% isodose 掃描 Contrast-enhanced MRI 製 used for 馬 Plan dose 計 CT scans 治療 done after 為 fixation, immediate 計畫 and after 等 GKRS to 曲線 the accuracy 靶體積 tumor localization. 分別 compared tumor 頭架 tumor and 後 gravity point 及 and tumor 之 in the 掃 sets of 電腦 scans to 比較 the precision 體積 immobilization and 與 fixation.Results: The 重心 movement analysis 與 that the 分析 point coordination 之準 of the 眼球 and lens 分析 CT-1 and 三 or CT-1 斷層 CT-3 was 腫瘤 than 0.120 水晶 At least 位置 of the 均 volume was 公厘 by the 劑量 dose in 腫瘤 3 sets 高 CT image. 在 GKRS, tumor 的 and serous 蹤 detachments disappearance 見 noted by 瘤 and orbital 之 in two 小 No major 網 was found 剝 follow up.Conclusion: 改善 using our 研究 protocol is 刀手 relatively non-invasive, 治療 and less 與 single fraction 運用 for intraocular 眼球 Our eye 具有 method reveals 確性 accuracy. Larger 提供 with long 內腫瘤 follow up 性及 needed to 治療 the dose 保留 result of the patients.
Purpose: 目的 plays an 線 role in 於 patients with 眼球 tumor and 於 visual function 視力 at organ-conservation. 保存 knife stereotactic 有 (GKRS) provides 角色 relatively non-invasive 近接 less time-consuming 用 for treating 葡萄膜 with choroidal 放射 comparing with 手術 brachytherapy. It 了 has the 侵入 radiosurgery to 與 effective treatment 治療 other ophthalmologic 此外 We presented 手術 new treatment 適應症 using GKRS 其他 treat patient 內 intraocular tumor 研究 evaluated the 為 and precision 設計 GKRS as 加馬刀 primary treatment 及 intraocular tumor.Methods: 於 patients with 內腫瘤 melanoma and 準確性 patient with 臨床 cancer orbital 與 treated with 選擇 Leksell Gamma 黑色素瘤 Perfexion stereotactic 與 in our 併 Retrobulbar anesthesia 內 fixation of 病人 treated eye 加馬刀 suturing two 先 muscles to 球 stereotactic frame 並將 performed in 外 to immobilize 縫合 eye in 頭部 whole treatment 定位 The dose 做 the tumor 眼球 was 25-30 之 prescribed at 安排 isodose line. 掃描 MRI was 製 for Gamma 馬 dose planning. 計 scans were 治療 after eye 為 immediate before 計畫 after the 等 to confirm 曲線 accuracy of 靶體積 localization. We 分別 tumor volume, 頭架 and lens 後 point deviation, 及 tumor coverage 之 the 3 掃 of CT 電腦 to check 比較 precision of 體積 and eye 與 The eye 重心 analysis revealed 與 the gravity 分析 coordination deviation 之準 the tumor 眼球 lens between 分析 and CT-2, 三 CT-1 and 斷層 was less 腫瘤 0.120 mm. 水晶 least 95% 位置 the tumor 均 was covered 公厘 the prescription 劑量 in the 腫瘤 sets of 高 image. After 在 tumor shrinkage 的 serous retinal 蹤 disappearance were 見 by ophthalmoscopy 瘤 orbital MRI 之 two patients. 小 major complication 網 found during 剝 up.Conclusion: GKRS 改善 our treatment 研究 is a 刀手 non-invasive, organconserving, 治療 less time-consuming 與 fraction treatment 運用 intraocular tumor. 眼球 eye fixation 具有 reveals high 確性 Larger study 提供 long term 內腫瘤 up is 性及 to evaluate 治療 dose response 保留 of the patients.
目的 This study 類神經 to establish 鼻咽癌 prognostic prediction 測系統 by artificial 人化 network for 狀況 patients with 材料 carcinoma.Materials and 本 In this 年 the dataset 臺 1,114 patients 癌症 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 臨床 one cancer 庫 during the 鼻咽癌 from 1990 年齡 2005. The 期別 variables include 侵犯 sex, primary 結擴散 regional lymph 細胞 biopsy, radiotherapy, 治療 lactic dehydrogenase, 治療 phosphatase, smoking, 脫氫 family history. 鹼性 final dataset 指數 984 patients 菸 70 patients 癌症 any data 十二 missing and 變數 patients with 不 metastasis. Seventy-five 以及 of 984 後 are randomly 本 and classified 隨機 training group. 訓練樣 artificial neural 類神經 is created 預測 computer software 五年 predict the 並對 survival status 的 patients with 靈 carcinoma. The 和 of prediction 積進 will be 分析 according to 本 such as 為 sensitivity, specificity, 整體 the area 利用 receiver operating 多層 curve.Result: The 網路 age of 起 patients is 預測 years old, 其訓練 the five-year 測試 survival rate 與 77.74%. The 存活 artificial neural 進行 is MLP 分析 which training 中 is 92.00 個 test performance 的 87.80. Its 預測準 is 90.96%, 靈 is 93.73%, 特異度 is 81.27%, 為 area under 下面 ROC curve 單以 0.95 for 本來 patients. Its 預測準 is 87.80%, 靈 is 92.23%, 特異度 is 71.70%, 及 area under 積為 ROC curve 研究 0.88 for 網路 group.Conclusion: This 一種 shows that 鼻咽癌 prognostic prediction 方法 established by 統計 neural network 該類 the potential 預測 predict the 顯示 survival status 多 individual patients 資料 nasopharyngeal carcinoma. 網路 more input 別 the performance 五年 prediction models 的 better than 先前 researches. But 但此 prognostic prediction 適用 still need 臨床 study to 有待 it could 的 used for 研究 patients.
Purpose: 目的 study wants 類神經 establish a 鼻咽癌 prediction system 測系統 artificial neural 人化 for individual 狀況 with nasopharyngeal 材料 and methods: 本 this study, 年 dataset are 臺 patients with 癌症 carcinoma in 臨床 cancer center 庫 the year 鼻咽癌 1990 to 年齡 The chosen 期別 include age, 侵犯 primary tumor, 結擴散 lymph nodes, 細胞 radiotherapy, chemotherapy, 治療 dehydrogenase, alkaline 治療 smoking, and 脫氫 history. The 鹼性 dataset are 指數 patients excluding 菸 patients with 癌症 data columns 十二 and 60 變數 with distant 不 Seventy-five percent 以及 984 patients 後 randomly selected 本 classified to 隨機 group. An 訓練樣 neural network 類神經 created by 預測 software to 五年 the five-year 並對 status of 的 with nasopharyngeal 靈 The performance 和 prediction models 積進 be evaluated 分析 to parameters 本 as accuracy, 為 specificity, and 整體 area under 利用 operating characteristic 多層 The average 網路 of the 起 is 45.45 預測 old, and 其訓練 five-year overall 測試 rate is 與 The optimized 存活 neural network 進行 MLP 34-5-2 分析 training performance 中 92.00 and 個 performance is 的 Its accuracy 預測準 90.96%, sensitivity 靈 93.73%, specificity 特異度 81.27%, and 為 under the 下面 curve is 單以 for all 本來 Its accuracy 預測準 87.80%, sensitivity 靈 92.23%, specificity 特異度 71.70%, and 及 under the 積為 curve is 研究 for test 網路 This study 一種 that the 鼻咽癌 prediction system 方法 by artificial 統計 network has 該類 potential to 預測 the five-year 顯示 status of 多 patients with 資料 carcinoma. With 網路 input data, 別 performance of 五年 models is 的 than previous 先前 But this 但此 prediction system 適用 need further 臨床 to prove 有待 could be 的 for clinical 研究
目的 To verify 的 accuracy of 校驗 clinical reference 允許 according to 測絕 TG-21 protocol 但僅 seven solid 固態 for high 資料 photon and 使用 beams.Materials and 校驗 The TG-21 然而 was published 議定 1983, and 內容 the clinical 應用 dosimetry can 與 performed in 時 solid phantom 劑量 However, only 本 and clear 在 are supported 固態 TG-21. Reference 劑量 followed by 應用 but use 執行 phantoms other 時 the phantoms 正確 by this 藉此 can result 的 in absolute 與 calibration. Plastic 依循 Phantom Material 之 Standard Grade 校驗 Water® (GSW), 之 Water^TM Phantom 與 (VSW), RW3 水假體 water phantom 兩種 white polystyrene 能量 (Wpoly), acrylic 光子 (Acry) and 電子 polystyrene phantom 各射束 are enrolled 分別 compare the 固態 with water 水假體 6, 10 之 15 MV 固態 beams and 校驗 9, 12 介質 15 MeV 書 beams. For 其中 RW3 and 加以 we compare 參數 results using 射束 water and 設定 polystyrene parameters 束則 clinical absolute 劑量 calculation. Ionization 完成 were taken 假體 water equivalent 不同 of 5 先 and dmax 與 photon and 絕對劑 beams, respectively. 分析 phantom dose 異 factor (PDCF) 各型 the absolute 水假體 between solid 比 phantoms and 固態 at the 劑量 calibration conditions 藉以 obtained. Additionally, 執行 for percent 時 doses at 在 equivalent depths 比 5, 10, 為確 15 cm 不同 photon beams, 於 d50 and 散射 in electron 與 were performed 本 verify the 水假體 response at 射束 depths.Results: The 深度 between five 電子 water phantoms 百分 water for 藉以 beams are 下 within 1.0%. 光子 PSW and 射束 the variations 於 electron beams 差異 within 1.0%. 假體 the variations 光子 -0.6 to 水假體 for 6 量差 15 MeV 與 beams for 射束 VSW, RW3, 水假 and Cpoly. 量差 PDCF of 之量 0.964 for 於 beams are 求得 The variations 固態 PDD (5 因子 PDD (10 ~ PDD (15 水假體 between five 下 water phantoms 值 water for 測之差 beams are 小 1.1%. The 水假體 of d50 射束 d80 between 之 solid water 所量 and water 皆 photon beams 在 within 1.5 使用 The PSW、GSW、VSW、RW3、Wpoly 體量 water phantom 時 be treated 為 water for 材質 10 and 劑 MV photon 且 And the 射束 can also 對 treated as 視為 for electron 假體 For electron 劑 dose calibration, 也 should be 與 for GSW, 執行 RW3 and 量量 Phantom response 出電子 to water 假體 be evaluated 藉以 when TG-21 水假體 is used 的 clinical dose calibration.
Purpose: 目的 verify the 的 of the 校驗 reference dosimetry 允許 to the 測絕 protocol using 但僅 solid phantoms 固態 high energy 資料 and electron 使用 and Methods: 校驗 TG-21 protocol 然而 published in 議定 and then 內容 clinical reference 應用 can be 與 in the 時 phantom materials. 劑量 only acrylic 本 clear polystyrene 在 supported in 固態 Reference dosimetry 劑量 by TG-21 應用 use solid 執行 other than 時 phantoms supported 正確 this protocol 藉此 result uncertainties 的 absolute dose 與 Plastic Water® 依循 Material (PSW), 之 Grade Solid 校驗 (GSW), Virtual 之 Phantom Materials 與 RW3 solid 水假體 phantom (RW3), 兩種 polystyrene phantom 能量 acrylic phantom 光子 and clear 電子 phantom (Cpoly) 各射束 enrolled to 分別 the responses 固態 water for 水假體 10 and 之 MV photon 固態 and 6, 校驗 12 and 介質 MeV electron 書 For the 其中 and Wpoly, 加以 compare the 參數 using the 射束 and clear 設定 parameters for 束則 absolute dosimetry 劑量 Ionization measurements 完成 taken at 假體 equivalent depths 不同 5 cm 先 dmax for 與 and electron 絕對劑 respectively. The 分析 dose conversion 異 (PDCF) of 各型 absolute dose 水假體 solid water 比 and water 固態 the identical 劑量 conditions are 藉以 Additionally, comparisons 執行 percent depth 時 at water 在 depths of 比 10, and 為確 cm in 不同 beams, and 於 and d80 散射 electron beams 與 performed to 本 the different 水假體 at different 射束 The variations 深度 five solid 電子 phantoms and 百分 for photon 藉以 are all 下 1.0%. For 光子 and Acry, 射束 variations in 於 beams are 差異 1.0%. However, 假體 variations are 光子 to -3.6% 水假體 6 to 量差 MeV electron 與 for GSW, 射束 RW3, Wploy 水假 Cpoly. The 量差 of 0.994~ 之量 for electron 於 are obtained. 求得 variations of 固態 (5 cm), 因子 (10 cm), ~ (15 cm) 水假體 five solid 下 phantoms and 值 for photon 測之差 are within 小 The variations 水假體 d50 and 射束 between five 之 water phantoms 所量 water for 皆 beams are 在 1.5 mm.Conclusion: 使用 PSW、GSW、VSW、RW3、Wpoly solid 體量 phantom can 時 treated as 為 for 6, 材質 and 15 劑 photon beams. 且 the PSW 射束 also be 對 as water 視為 electron beams. 假體 electron beam 劑 calibration, PDCF 也 be applied 與 GSW, VSW, 執行 and Wpoly. 量量 response relative 出電子 water should 假體 evaluated carefully 藉以 TG-21 protocol 水假體 used for 的 dose calibration.
目的 High dose 近接 (HDR) remote 以高劑 brachytherapy is 遙 most common 治療 used for 大多 Most hospitals 此 Taiwan used 居禮 Nucletron microSelectron 的 with 10 ) 192Ir source 近接 brachytherapy. The 計算 of dose 電腦 of Nucletron 運算 system was 系統 on TG-43. ^ aim of 以 study was 電腦 compare the 為 of TLD 近接 the calculation 劑量 using the 熱發 integral and ) and Method: 西弗積 TLDs and 計算 2100C LINAC 與 used to 比 the calibration 方法 The selected 直線 and needle 射源 were put 選過 the special 於 in solid 假 phantom. The 不同 of measurement 的 compared with 配合 integral and 計算出 The variation 量值 the result 量值 measurement and 的 with TG-43 在 in 8%, 的 the result 的測 calculation with 計算值 integral have 的 variation up 在 22% between 的 others, especial 最大 the region 向 source. The 的誤 between three 的 were decreased 向 large radial 於 The variation 減少 the result 結論 measurement and 的 with TG-43 差異 within 8%. 的 underestimate of 兩者 for Sievert 左右 might be 散射 to the 劑量 scatting, and 斜 influence of 影響 scatting would 而 decreased with 近接 increasing of 陡峭 distance. The 變化 contribution of 能 in this 空間 might be 差 from the 射源 of TLD 偏移 and the 最大 source position.
Purpose: 目的 dose rate 近接 remote afterloading 以高劑 is the 遙 common methods 治療 for brachytherapy. 大多 hospitals in 此 used the 居禮 microSelectron system 的 10 Ci ) source for 近接 The theory 計算 dose calculation 電腦 Nucletron microSelectron 運算 was based 系統 TG-43. The ^ of this 以 was to 電腦 the result 為 TLD measurement 近接 calculation results 劑量 the Sievert 熱發 and TG-43.Material ) Method: The 西弗積 and Varian 計算 LINAC were 與 to build 比 calibration curve. 方法 selected TLD 直線 needle applicator 射源 put in 選過 special positions 於 solid water 假 The result 不同 measurement was 的 with Sievert 配合 and TG-43.Result: 計算出 variation between 量值 result of 量值 and calculation 的 TG-43 are 在 8%, but 的 result of 的測 with Sievert 計算值 have large 的 up to 在 between the 的 especial in 最大 region near 向 The differences 的誤 three methods 的 decreased with 向 radial distances.Conclusion: 於 variation between 減少 result of 結論 and calculation 的 TG-43 were 差異 8%. The 的 of dose 兩者 Sievert integral 左右 be due 散射 the oblique 劑量 and the 斜 of oblique 影響 would be 而 with the 近接 of radial 陡峭 The most 變化 of error 能 this study 空間 be come 差 the shift 射源 TLD positions 偏移 the brachytherapy 最大 position.
乳房 breast osteosarcoma 是 an aggressive 的 relatively rare 骨肉瘤 with poor 的 It is 病例 with early 引用 and hematogenous 及 than lymphatic 追 most commonly 有 the lungs. 數的 report a 腫瘤 in a 但 woman who 在 with a 後 painless lump 或 left breast 外來 six years 且 Left side 發年齡 sparing mastectomy 為 axillary lymph 預後不佳 dissection was 的 out. The 血液 was 10 淋巴 9.5 x 部位 cm in 治療 Histopathology of 手術 nipple sparing 對 specimen showed 轉移 osteosarcomatous areas. 才 indicated that 我們 osteoblastic cells 報告 the tumor 原發性 positively for 左側 but negatively 全 epithelial markers; 手術 suggested. Immunohistochemistry 邊緣 a pivotal 腫瘤 in the 後 of this 治療 of tumor. 雖然 there was 局部 evidence of 情況 and residual 術 cell was 個 at the 發生 of site 大部分 surgery, she 報告 adjuvant radiotherapy 放射 chemotherapy. But 病例 remained disease 治療 at 15 疾病 at which 復 metastases of 無法 and lung 高轉 diagnosed.
Primary 乳房 osteosarcoma is 是 aggressive and 的 rare tumour 骨肉瘤 poor prognosis. 的 is associated 病例 early recurrence 引用 hematogenous rather 及 lymphatic spread, 追 commonly to 有 lungs. We 數的 a case 腫瘤 a 32-year-old 但 who presented 在 a hard 後 lump at 或 breast of 外來 years duration. 且 side nipple 發年齡 mastectomy including 為 lymph node 預後不佳 was carried 的 The tumor 血液 10 x 淋巴 x 6 部位 in size. 治療 of the 手術 sparing mastectomy 對 showed predominantly 轉移 areas. Immunohistochemistry 才 that neoplastic 我們 cells of 報告 tumor stained 原發性 for vimentin, 左側 negatively for 全 markers; which 手術 Immunohistochemistry plays 邊緣 pivotal role 腫瘤 the diagnosis 後 this type 治療 tumor. Because 雖然 was no 局部 of metastasis 情況 residual tumoral 術 was present 個 the base 發生 site of 大部分 she received 報告 radiotherapy and 放射 But she 病例 disease free 治療 15 months 疾病 which time 復 of bone 無法 lung were 高轉
一位 85-year-old man 心臟 had artificial 歲 implantation was 病人 to have 出 cancer. The 經多團 was ineligible 討論 surgery or 不 as the 治療 of multidisciplinary 因此 board. So 使用 alone was 治療 The location 相當 tumor is 節律器 close to 所以 lead of 建議 Thus, the 讓 absorbed high 劑量 of radiation 節律器 although the 避免 literature strongly 高劑 that the 的 should not 放射 in the 科 field or 內科 radiation dose 下 than 200 順利 Under close 放射 between the 腫瘤 oncologist and 劑量 cardiologist, the 的 underwent the 劑量 smoothly. The 治療 dose was 後 cGy to 的 and 5777 腫瘤 to pacemaker. 消除 tumor got 無 remission and 異常 malfunction of 所知 was noted 這是 three months' 個 up. To 藉由 knowledge, this 腫瘤 the first 心臟 report in 密切合作 to demonstrate 節律器 to successfully 避免 radiotherapy to 高劑 a cancer 仍 with pacemaker 地以 under the 治療 cooperation of 癌症病人 oncologist and 報告
An 一位 man who 心臟 artificial pacemaker 歲 was diagnosed 病人 have esophageal 出 The patient 經多團 ineligible for 討論 or chemotherapy 不 the agreement 治療 multidisciplinary tumor 因此 So radiotherapy 使用 was planned. 治療 location of 相當 is very 節律器 to the 所以 of pacemaker. 建議 the pacemaker 讓 high dose 劑量 radiation inevitably 節律器 the published 避免 strongly suggested 高劑 the pacemaker 的 not be 放射 the direct 科 or absorb 內科 dose higher 下 200 cGy. 順利 close cooperation 放射 the radiation 腫瘤 and the 劑量 the patient 的 the radiotherapy 劑量 The prescribed 治療 was 6000 後 to tumor 的 5777 cGy 腫瘤 pacemaker. The 消除 got complete 無 and no 異常 of pacemaker 所知 noted at 這是 months' follow 個 To our 藉由 this is 腫瘤 first case 心臟 in Taiwan 密切合作 demonstrate how 節律器 successfully use 避免 to treat 高劑 cancer patient 仍 pacemaker implantation 地以 the close 治療 of radiation 癌症病人 and cardiologist.
目的 This retrospective 回溯 aimed to 研究 the prognostic 接受 influenced the 助性 and progression-free 線 (PFS) in 的 cancer patients 宮頸癌 received radical 研究 and Iymphadenectomy 整體 adjuvant radiotherapy.Methods: 及無病 2000 to 的 there were 後 cervical cancer 材料 treated with 方法 and adjuvant 從 in the 年 of Radiation 高雄榮民 Kaohsiung Veterans 收錄 Hospital, Taiwan. 接受 characteristics, treatment 放射 and pathologic 治療 were analyzed 子 log rank 患者 The overall 單變 (OS) and 與 distribution were 變項 by Kaplan-Meier 各種 Multivariate analysis 影響 performed by 之預 Cox regression 結果 The median 之中 of this 年齡 was 55 歲 (ranged from 頸癌 to 82). 依據 were 102, 有 and 14 有 belonged to 有 stage 18, 分期 and 118 的 IVA, respectively. 整體 5-year OS 及無病 PFS were 分別 and 65.4% 及 stage 18 的 cancer, 69.7% 整體 70.5% in 及無病 IIA cervical 分別 and 66.7% 及 50% in 為 118. IVA 五年 cancer. In 存活率 analysis, the 存活率 of adenocarcinoma 為 ＜0.05) and 多 invasion (p 分析 0.01) correlated 宮旁 worse OS 以及 the factors 顯著 parametrial invasion 存活率 ＜0.01) and 子宮 ＜60 (p 侵犯 correlated with 腺癌 PFS.Conclusion: Parametrial 的 and histology 態為 adenocarcinoma accounted 重要 most important 預 factors among 因子 clinical and 在 factors in 的 receiving adjuvant 中 Adjuvant chemotherapy 性化 achieve better 不能 in our study.
Purpose: 目的 retrospective study 回溯 to investigate 研究 prognostic factors 接受 the overall 助性 progression-free survival 線 in cervical 的 patients who 宮頸癌 radical hysterectomy 研究 Iymphadenectomy and 整體 radiotherapy.Methods: From 及無病 to 2006, 的 were 149 後 cancer patients 材料 with surgery 方法 adjuvant radiotherapy 從 the Department 年 Radiation therapy, 高雄榮民 Veterans General 收錄 Taiwan. Patient 接受 treatment characteristics 放射 pathologic factors 治療 analyzed using 子 rank test. 患者 overall survival 單變 and PFS 與 were calculated 變項 Kaplan-Meier method. 各種 analysis was 影響 by the 之預 regression model.Result: 結果 median age 之中 this population 年齡 55 years-old 歲 from 25 頸癌 82). There 依據 102, 33, 有 14 patients 有 to FIGO 有 18, IIA 分期 118 to 的 respectively. The 整體 OS and 及無病 were 75.2% 分別 65.4% in 及 18 cervical 的 69.7% and 整體 in stage 及無病 cervical cancer, 分別 66.7% and 及 in stage 為 IVA cervical 五年 In multivariate 存活率 the factors 存活率 adenocarcinoma (p 為 and parametrial 多 (p ＜ 分析 correlated with 宮旁 OS and 以及 factors of 顯著 invasion (p 存活率 and age 子宮 (p ＜0.05) 侵犯 with worse 腺癌 Parametrial invasion 的 histology of 態為 accounted the 重要 important prognostic 預 among other 因子 and pathological 在 in patients 的 adjuvant radiotherapy. 中 chemotherapy didn't 性化 better survival 不能 our study.
目的 : To 螺旋 evaluate Hypofractionated 治療 (HT) on 分 treatment of 第 lesions in 肺癌 with stage 之 non-small celllung 與 (NSCLC).Material and 年 Between April 年 and July 有 27 stage 患者 NSCLC patients 其肺 treated with 所有 for their 數目 lesions. The 個 of intrathocic 病灶 was ≦ 分析 and none 生存期 them exceeded 發 cm in 肺炎 dimension. Overall 治療 rate of 參考 recurrence and 斷層 of radiation 接受 were analyzed. 數介 computerized tomography 次 was utilized 單次 tumor contouring. 數為 mean radiation 標準 per fraction 量 4.7±0.3 Gy 全部 deviation) and 蹤 number of 中 ranged between 月 and 16 期 10 fractions). 照 irradiation dose 復 48.8±6.8 Gy.Results: 中位數 median follow-up 患有 was 16.1 病灶 There was 整體 in-field failure. 數為 median duration 之 overall survival 生存期 11.2 months 為 patients with 之間 disease (EPD) 差異 38.6 months 以 patients without 病灶 (p = 轉移 The median 於 of overall 整體 was 34.7 數為 among patients 數量 ＜ 3 至 GTV s 整體 32.1 months 數則 patients with 之間 intrathoracic GTVs 差異 = 0.57). 於 aggregated intrathoracic 積平昀 in each 肺 averaged 39.18±39.98 為 The median 內 of overall 評估 was 38.6 總體積 among patients 或 aggregated intrathoracic 者 ≦27.89 cm^3 生存期 12.3 months 月 patients with 積大 intrathothoracic GTV 者 27.89 cm^3 生存期 0.04). Two 為 developed grade 具有 or greater 差異 pneumomhs.Conclusion: HT 於 be feasible 級 selected stage 放射性 NSCLC patients 使用 the number 或 intrathoracic lesions 個 than or 小細胞 to 5. 病灶 local control 之腫瘤 be anticipated. 有 of EPD 轉移 volume of 病灶 lesions may 影響 significant prognostic 之 for overall survival.
Introduction 目的 To retrospectively 螺旋 Hypofractionated Tomotherapy 治療 on the 分 of intrathoracic 第 in patients 肺癌 stage IV 之 celllung cancer 與 and Methods: 年 April 2007 年 July 2011, 有 stage IV 患者 patients were 其肺 with HT 所有 their intrathoracic 數目 The number 個 intrathocic lesions 病灶 ≦ 5 分析 none of 生存期 exceeded 5 發 in greatest 肺炎 Overall survival, 治療 of in-field 參考 and incidence 斷層 radiation pneumonitis 接受 analyzed. Megavoltage 數介 tomography (MVCT) 次 utilized for 單次 contouring. The 數為 radiation dose 標準 fraction was 量 Gy (mean±standard 全部 and the 蹤 of fractions 中 between 9 月 16 (median: 期 fractions). Total 照 dose was 復 Gy.Results: The 中位數 follow-up period 患有 16.1 months. 病灶 was no 整體 failure. The 數為 duration of 之 survival was 生存期 months among 為 with extrapulmonary 之間 (EPD) and 差異 months among 以 without EPD 病灶 = 0.03). 轉移 median duration 於 overall survival 整體 34.7 months 數為 patients with 數量 3 intrathoracic 至 s and 整體 months among 數則 with 3-5 之間 GTVs (p 差異 0.57). The 於 intrathoracic GTV 積平昀 each patient 肺 39.18±39.98 cm3. 為 median duration 內 overall survival 評估 38.6 months 總體積 patients with 或 intrathoracic GTV 者 cm^3 and 生存期 months among 月 with aggregated 積大 GTV ＞ 者 cm^3 (p= 生存期 Two patients 為 grade 3 具有 greater radiation 差異 HT may 於 feasible for 級 stage IV 放射性 patients with 使用 number of 或 lesions less 個 or equal 小細胞 5. Excellent 病灶 control can 之腫瘤 anticipated. Presence 有 EPD and 轉移 of intrathoracic 病灶 may be 影響 prognostic factors 之 overall survival.
背景 and Purpose: 比較 investigate the 之 of supine 優 versus prone 臥 with belly-board 放療 prostate radiotherapy 的 evaluation the 直腸 parameter change 評估 internal organs 與 treatment dose-volume 係 (DVHs).Materials and 方法 Fifteen patients 患者 prostate cancer 骨盆 pelvic CT 掃描 in position 之 both prone 及 belly-board device 固定 supine without 每個 Four-field box 兩種 conformal radiotherapy 治療 treatment planning 使用 planned for 技術 patient in 作統計 positions. Geometric 項目 including diameter 的 rectum, distant 直腸 critical organs 距及 treatment DVHs 治療 investigated. Wilcoxon 體積 test was 患者 for statistical 姿勢 Patients in 治療 treatment position 在 both larger 位置 diameters and 的 diameter of 和 (p = 和 and p 大 0.031), and 和 distance between 間 centers of 值 and rectum 於 than those 導致 patients in 的 position. In 大 to the 低 data, prone 較 position resulted 直腸 larger rectal 高輻射 (p = 腺癌 lower mean 時 dose (p 俯 0.002) and 固定 rectal volume 直腸 high radiation 橫斷面 (p = 顯著 Patients in 於 treatment position 的 belly-board immobilization 在 both larger 中心 diameters, transverse 距離 of rectum, 腹板 larger distance 臥位 the centers 方式 prostate and 的 than those 劑量 patients in 直方圖 position. Prone 使用 position with 俯 device can 方式 rectum dose, 低 may in 量 decrease the 放療 of radiation-induced 發症
Backaround 背景 Purpose: To 比較 the impact 之 supine position 優 prone position 臥 belly-board on 放療 radiotherapy by 的 the geometric 直腸 change between 評估 organs and 與 dose-volume histograms 係 and Methods: 方法 patients with 患者 cancer underwent 骨盆 CT scan 掃描 position of 之 prone with 及 device and 固定 without immobilization. 每個 box three-dimensional 兩種 radiotherapy (3DCRT) 治療 planning was 使用 for each 技術 in both 作統計 Geometric change 項目 diameter of 的 distant between 直腸 organs and 距及 DVHs were 治療 Wilcoxon signed-rank 體積 was used 患者 statistical analysis.Results: 姿勢 in prone 治療 position had 在 larger anterio-posterior 位置 and transverse 的 of rectum 和 = 0.003 和 p = 大 and larger 和 between the 間 of prostate 值 rectum (p=0.002) 於 those of 導致 in supine 的 In regard 大 the DVHs 低 prone treatment 較 resulted in 直腸 rectal volume 高輻射 = 0.015), 腺癌 mean rectal 時 (p = 俯 and smaller 固定 volume receiving 直腸 radiation dose 橫斷面 = 0.001).Conclusions: 顯著 in prone 於 position with 的 immobilization had 在 larger anterio-posterior 中心 transverse diameter 距離 rectum, and 腹板 distance between 臥位 centers of 方式 and rectum 的 those of 劑量 in supine 直方圖 Prone treatment 使用 with belly-board 俯 can reduce 方式 dose, which 低 in turn 量 the risk 放療 radiation-induced complications.
: To compare : reproducibility, comfort : and hardness : by the . between two . suports employed . the same . system in . neck radiotherapy. . the relationship : setup accuracy : patient comfort : was also ( Between March ( and February ( there were ) patients undergoing ) radiotherapy (RT) ) recruited and ( studied patients ( the same ( device (a ( thermoplastic head-and-shoulder ) Type S ) twice, in ) two different . supports were . Both a . support and . Silverman support . used to . setup accuracy/precision ( several types ( measurement respectively ( each studied ) All patients ) planning computed ) (CT). A . of on-board . (OBIs) were . at the . during, and ( the end ( the radiotherapy ( in each ) patient. The ) images were ) co-registered and . accuracy was . by recording . including three . at the . and orthogonal . Furthermore, the ' subjective perception ' comfort level, ' and preference . selecting between . two head . were analyzed ' compared. Last ' not least, ' attempted to ' the association . repositioning accuracy . by several . and the : subjective perception : terms of : level and . A total . 351 OBI . sets were ( Although the ( difference was ( small between . two head . (TIMO support . Silverman support) ) regard to ) displacement errors, ) vector displacement ) spine curve, ( mandible angle, ( was noted ( Silverman support ) associated with ) limited repositioning ) in the ( (AP) and ( (ML) directions ( t-test, p= ) 0.004, respectively). ) the RT ) was proceeding, ( trend was ( toward a ( variation in ) spinal curve ) mandible angle, ) that reproducibility ) be paid . attention when . RT course . forward. In . comfort survey, . of hardness . positively correlated ( comfort level ( both head ( with weak ' significant significance ' correlation coefficient ' 0.387, p ＜ As for ＜ association between ＜ accuracy and ) accuracy and ) survey, although ) was no . correlation between . of head . and repositioning . comfort level ( positively correlated ( repositioning displacement ( rotation (Pearson's ' coefficient =0.213, ' ＜0.001) and ' vector displacement ＜ (Pearson's correlation ＜ =0.153, p= ＜ in Silverman ) support only.Conclusions: ) results of ) current study ( demonstrated that ( available immobilization ( equipped with ' TIMO head ' or a ' head support ' satisfactory and ) equivalent repositioning-related ) More limited ) displacement is . associated with . satisfactory perception . comfort level : in the : system equipped : Silverman head . In the . we might . leaving the . between the . different head . to the . patient according . subjective perception . comfort level.
Objectives/Hypothesis: : compare setup : comfort level : hardness perceived : the patients . two head . employed in . same immobilization . in head-and . radiotherapy. Additionally, . relationship between : accuracy and : comfort survey : also investigated.Methods: ( March 2011 ( February 2012, ( were 35 ) undergoing head-and-neck ) (RT) being ) and all ( patients received ( same immobilization ( (a standard ( head-and-shoulder mask, ) S mask) ) in which ) different head . were employed. . a TIMO . and a . support were . to compare . accuracy/precision with ( types of ( respectively in ( studied patient. ) patients underwent ) computed tomography ) A series . on-board images . were taken . the start, . and by ( end of ( radiotherapy course ( each studied ) The OBI ) were subsequently ) and repositioning . was examined . recording displacement . three axes . the isocenter . orthogonal planes. . the patients' ' perception of ' level, hardness, ' preference for . between the . head supports . analyzed and ' Last but ' least, we ' to explore ' association between . accuracy represented . several indicators . the patients' : perception in : of comfort : and hardness.Results: . total of . OBI data . were analyzed. ( the absolute ( was quite ( between the . head supports . support vs. . support) with ) to three ) errors, total ) displacement errors, ) curve, and ( angle, it ( noted that ( support was ) with more ) repositioning displacement ) the anteroposterior ( and medio-lateral ( directions (paired ( p= 0.011, ) respectively). As ) RT course ) proceeding, a ( was noted ( a greater ( in both ) curve and ) angle, suggesting ) reproducibility should ) paid more . when the . course moves . In the . survey, perception . hardness was . correlated with ( level in ( head supports ( weak but ' significance (Spearman's ' coefficient = ' p ＜0.001). ＜ for the ＜ between repositioning ＜ and repositioning ) and comfort ) although there ) no any . between hardness . head supports . repositioning accuracy, . level was ( correlated with ( displacement in ( (Pearson's correlation ' =0.213, P ' and total ' displacement error ＜ correlation coefficient ＜ p= 0.006) ＜ Silverman head ) only.Conclusions: The ) of the ) study have ( that the ( immobilization system ( with either ' head support ' a Silverman ' support provides ' and nearIy ) repositioning-related outcomes. ) limited repositioning ) is positively . with more . perception of . level exclusively : the immobilization : equipped with : head support. . the future, . might consider . the choice . the two . head supports . the individual . according to . perception of . level.
癌症 of cancer 是 depends on 多 communication, cooperation 協調 collaboration of 和 team. Multidisciplinary 專科團 conferences are 由 for cancer 診療 providers to 之 of the 的 prospective treatment 討論 and recommendation 前瞻性 management, caring 處置 nursing for 癌症 cancer patient. 隊會議 implementation of 在 team conferences 癌症病患 for improving 多 quality of 本身 care. Improvement 改善 quality of 國內 team conferences 多 also required. 的 a practice 尚未 of multidisciplinary 本 conferences is 描述 well-established in 多 In this 的 we described 組成 definition, content 多 composition, advantages 的 facilitators of 因素 team conferences 說明 cancer patients. 也 the role 中 responsibility of 成員 team members 和 identified. In 的 we discussed 討 explored the 隊會議 and further 的 of multidisciplinary 討論 conferences. Results 的 enhance our 如此 in the 提高 of the 專科團 team conferences. 的 information would 有助 useful for 的 effective practice 隊會議 of multidisciplinary team conferences.
Quality 癌症 cancer treatment 是 on coordination, 多 cooperation and 協調 of multidisciplinary 和 Multidisciplinary team 專科團 are forums 由 cancer treatment 診療 to discuss 之 the diagnosis, 的 treatment policy 討論 recommendation of 前瞻性 caring and 處置 for a 癌症 patient. The 隊會議 of multidisciplinary 在 conferences aims 癌症病患 improving the 多 of cancer 本身 Improvement in 改善 of multidisciplinary 國內 conferences is 多 required. However, 的 practice standard 尚未 multidisciplinary team 本 is not 描述 in Taiwan. 多 this study, 的 described the 組成 content and 多 advantages and 的 of multidisciplinary 因素 conferences for 說明 patients. Furthermore, 也 role and 中 of multidisciplinary 成員 members were 和 In addition, 的 discussed and 討 the dilemmas 隊會議 further perspectives 的 multidisciplinary team 討論 Results would 的 our understanding 如此 the impact 提高 the multidisciplinary 專科團 conferences. Such 的 would be 有助 for developing 的 practice standard 隊會議 multidisciplinary team conferences.
目的 Intensity-modulated radiation 放射 (IMRT) has 許多類 a standard 的 delivery technique 治療 many types 頭頸癌 cancers such 式 prostate, head 放射 neck and 使用 The dosage 或 not precise 劑量 step-and-shoot IMRT, 顯劑 the radiation 的 with higher 象 rate or 段 dose per 多 The phenomenon 區段 overshoot effect. 稱之為 causes the 少擊 dose at 的 first segment 測量 lower dose 程度 the last 方法 The purposes 使 that exam 的 dosimetric accuracy 計畫 overshoot effect, 兩者 improve the 與 with corrections.Materials 的 Method's: There 主要 two parts : the study. 於 first part 率 to exam 監測 overshoot with 分鐘 dose rates, 區段 100 MU/min 每個 600 MU/min, 每個 segment dose, 進行 1 MU 程度 segment (MUI 擋 to 10 索引 The second 修正 is to 不同 and measure 不同 overshoot effect 來量 block correct, 多擊 correct and 結果 correct.Result : 多擊 overshoot effect 隨劑 higher dose 高 the first 劑量 and lower 越 at the 測區 segment with 監測 dose rate 區段 lower dose 於 segment. While 單位 dose per 現象 is 1 修正 and the 修正 rate is 確劑 MU/min, the 修正 error is 修正 to 52.5%. 段 three corrections 單位 dosimetric accuracy 處 the overshoot 監測 Block correct, 分鐘 correct and 效應 correct reduce 本 dose from 目的 to 98.7%, 的 and 100.1 避免 repectively.Conclusion: Clinically, 小監測 is possible 量 reduce the 多擊 effect with 的 lower dose 三種 segment and 測量 dose rate. 顯示 three corrections 分段 the dosimetric 放射 for overshoot 準確
Purpose: 目的 radiation therapy 放射 has become 許多類 standard radiation 的 technique for 治療 types of 頭頸癌 such as 式 head and 放射 and breast. 使用 dosage was 或 precise in 劑量 IMRT, while 顯劑 radiation delivered 的 higher dose 象 or lower 段 per segment. 多 phenomenon is 區段 effect. It 稱之為 the higher 少擊 at the 的 segment and 測量 dose at 程度 last segment. 方法 purposes are 使 exam the 的 accuracy with 計畫 effect, and 兩者 the accuracy 與 corrections.Materials and 的 There are 主要 parts in : study. The 於 part is 率 exam the 監測 with the 分鐘 rates, from 區段 MU/min to 每個 MU/min, and 每個 dose, from 進行 MU per 程度 (MUI seg) 擋 10 MU/seg. 索引 second part 修正 to correct 不同 measure the 不同 effect with 來量 correct, interlace 多擊 and index 結果 : The 多擊 effect cause 隨劑 dose at 高 first segment 劑量 lower dose 越 the last 測區 with higher 監測 rate and 區段 dose per 於 While the 單位 per segment 現象 1 MU 修正 the dose 修正 is 600 確劑 the dosimetric 修正 is up 修正 52.5%. The 段 corrections improved 單位 accuracy with 處 overshoot effect. 監測 correct, interlace 分鐘 and index 效應 reduce the 本 from 152.5% 目的 98.7%, 93.4% 的 100.1 %, 避免 Clinically, it 小監測 possible to 量 the overshoot 多擊 with with 的 dose per 三種 and higher 測量 rate. The 顯示 corrections improve 分段 dosimetric accuracy 放射 overshoot effect.
隨著 aging societies, 來 is common 醫師 clinicians to 當中 difficulties in 日俱增 pelvic lesions 金屬 hindrance from 金屬 hip replacement 斷層 on computed 造成 (CT) scans. 無法 the patient 此外 bilateral metallic 磁場 prostheses, we 無法 megavoltage computed 無法 (MVCT) to 影像 metallic artifacts 治療 The obscured 計畫 in conventional 很大 scans can 此 seen via 刀 provided by 之 Serial MVCTs 斷層 merged with 減輕 positron emission 的 (PET) images 臨床 for target 病灶 during treatment 造影 The application 放射 MVCT provides 系統 and the 融合 of another 腫瘤 pathway in 認知 with metallic 計劃
In 隨著 societies, it 來 common for 醫師 to encounter 當中 in discerning 日俱增 lesions with 金屬 from total 金屬 replacement (THR) 斷層 computed tomography 造成 scans. For 無法 patient with 此外 metallic hip 磁場 we utilized 無法 computed tomography 無法 to overcome 影像 artifacts diagnostically. 治療 obscured lesion 計畫 conventional CT 很大 can be 此 via MVCT 刀 by Tomotherapy. 之 MVCTs were 斷層 with pretreatment 減輕 emission tomography 的 images sets 臨床 target delineation 病灶 treatment planning. 造影 application of 放射 provides insights 系統 the feasibility 融合 another therapeutic 腫瘤 in patients 認知 metallic implantation.
默克 cell carcinoma ; is a 一種 primary cutaneous 的 of neuroendocrine 皮膚 associated with 內 poor prognosis 腫瘤 a low 存活率 rate. It 低 an estimated 美國 incidence of 估計 to 4.4 人 1,000,000 person-years 每百 the United 年 MCC usually 的 an aggressive 發展 with early 早期 recurrence and 復 distant metastatic 轉移率 of up 於 25% in 以上 series. It 老人 affects elderly 位置 over 65 為 of age. 在 preferably affects 的 exposed to 部區域 sun: 55% 佔 the head 四肢 neck, 40% 在 the limbs 在 5% in 報告 trunk. Here 了 present a 歲 year old 年 of cT0 本院 cMl stage 的 Merkel cell 年 of right 右側 area with 前區 stage III 的 cancer. Postoperative 病患 was given 後 the patient 劑量 61.2 Gy. 放射 literature review 文獻 MCC indicates 表示 aggressive radiotherapy 的 have a 司以 impact on 局部 control and 生存率
Merkel 默克 carcinoma (MCC) ; a rare 一種 cutaneous tumor 的 neuroendocrine type 皮膚 with a 內 prognosis and 腫瘤 low survival 存活率 It has 低 estimated age-adjusted 美國 of 3.2 估計 4.4 per 人 person-years in 每百 United States. 年 usually has 的 aggressive course 發展 early locoregional 早期 and high 復 metastatic rates 轉移率 up to 於 in most 以上 It usually 老人 elderly people 位置 65 years 為 age. It 在 affects areas 的 to the 部區域 55% in 佔 head and 四肢 40% in 在 limbs and 在 in the 報告 Here we 了 a 75 歲 old case 年 cT0 pNl 本院 stage IV 的 cell carcinoma 年 right preauricular 右側 with pT3bNO, 前區 III prostate 的 Postoperative radiotherapy 病患 given to 後 patient for 劑量 Gy. A 放射 review of 文獻 indicates that 表示 radiotherapy can 的 a positive 司以 on overalllocal 局部 and survival.
目的 Thymic carcinoma 腺癌 an uncommon 不常見 lethal malignancy. 的 analyze the 我們 and prognostic 本院 of patients 腺癌 advanced thymic 治療 treated at 預 single institution.Materials 材料 Methods: The 從 of 18 至 with histologically 月 thymic carcinoma 診斷 between April 病人 and April 軍 at Tri-Service 治療 Hospital were 其 reviewed. Surgical 共 was performed 手術 9 patients, 包括 3 patients 術前 received preoperative 後 and postoperative 治療 followed by 化學 5 who 接受 postoperative chemoradiotherapy 放射 by chemotherapy 併 1 who 及 postoperative radiotherapy 術 Eight patients 治療 tumor which 切除 unresectable or 接受 inoperable and 病人 chemoradiotherapy followed 治療 chemotherapy or 併 alone. One 或 died 2 有 after diagnosis 沒有 any cancer 治療 Radiotherapy was 診斷 with three-dimensional 月 radiation therapy, 治療 radiation therapy 三度 stereotactic ablative 放射 using Cyberknife 調控 Inc., Sunnyvale, 治療 The median 放射 of radiotherapy 治療 63 Gy. 中位 (93.3%) of 接受 chemotherapy regimen 的 cisplatin.Results: The 的 of Masaoka 結果 at presentation 有 III in 是 patients, IVA 位是 4 patients 期 IVB in 病患 patients. The 存活率 overall survival 無 rate and 為 progression-free survival 放射 rate were 病患 and 32.1%, 的 The 5-year 內 tumor control 為 of 17 分析 who underwent 放射 was80.9%. Univariate 劑量 analysis revealed 是 radiotherapy ≧ 預後有 Gy was 因子 only statistically 劑量 predictor of 可 A total 腺癌 dose of 整體 65 Gy 和 in improved 惡化 OS (100% 在 13.1%, p= 接受 and 3-year 的 (47.6% vs. 病人 p=0.044) in 放射 with thymic 於 The survival 有 of receiving 結論 ≧ 65 方式 was apparent 包括 the unresected 治療 of patients 治療 thymic carcinoma.Conclusions: 晚期 multidisciplinary treatments 腺癌 surgery, radiotherapy, 有 chemotherapy, are 放射 in treating 大 thymic carcinoma. 改善 with dose 腺癌 65 Gy 整體 improve the 無 and PFS 尤其 patients with 沒 thymic carcinoma, 手術 in the unresected group.
Purpose: 目的 carcinoma is 腺癌 uncommon but 不常見 malignancy. We 的 the outcomes 我們 prognostic factors 本院 patients with 腺癌 thymic carcinoma 治療 at a 預 institution.Materials and 材料 The records 從 18 patients 至 histologically confirmed 月 carcinoma treated 診斷 April 1996 病人 April 2012 軍 Tri-Service General 治療 were retrospectively 其 Surgical resection 共 performed in 手術 patients, including 包括 patients who 術前 preoperative therapy 後 postoperative chemoradiotherapy 治療 by chemotherapy, 化學 who received 接受 chemoradiotherapy followed 放射 chemotherapy and 併 who received 及 radiotherapy alone. 術 patients had 治療 which were 切除 or medically 接受 and underwent 病人 followed by 治療 or radiotherapy 併 One patient 或 2 months 有 diagnosis without 沒有 cancer treatment. 治療 was delivered 診斷 three-dimensional conformal 月 therapy, intensity-modulated 治療 therapy or 三度 ablative radiotherapy 放射 Cyberknife (Accuray, 調控 Sunnyvale, CA). 治療 median dose 放射 radiotherapy was 治療 Gy. Most 中位 of the 接受 regimen contained 的 The distribution 的 Masaoka stage 結果 presentation was 有 in 7 是 IVA in 位是 patients and 期 in 7 病患 The 5-year 存活率 survival (OS) 無 and 3-year 為 survival (PFS) 放射 were 46.5% 病患 32.1%, respectively. 的 5-year in-field 內 control rate 為 17 patients 分析 underwent radiotherapy 放射 Univariate statistical 劑量 revealed that 是 ≧ 65 預後有 was the 因子 statistically significant 劑量 of outcome. 可 total radiation 腺癌 of ≧ 整體 Gy results 和 improved 3-year 惡化 (100% vs. 在 p= 0.004) 接受 3-year PFS 的 vs. 16%, 病人 in patients 放射 thymic carcinoma. 於 survival benefit 有 receiving radiotherapy 結論 65 Gy 方式 apparent in 包括 unresected group 治療 patients with 治療 carcinoma.Conclusions: Aggressive 晚期 treatments including 腺癌 radiotherapy, and 有 are helpful 放射 treating advanced 大 carcinoma. Radiotherapy 改善 dose above 腺癌 Gy may 整體 the OS 無 PFS of 尤其 with advanced 沒 carcinoma, especially 手術 the unresected group.
目的 To evaluate 前 toxicity and 調控 response of 合 volumetric modulated 化學 therapy (VMAT) 局部 chemotherapy as 病患 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 副作用 for rectal 初步 and Methods: 材料 patients with 自西元 IIA-IV rectal 至 who underwent 月 CCRT using 分期 VMAT from 之 2010 to 接受 2010 were 術 in this 弧形 All patients 治療 treated on 化學 belly board 所有 a full 使用 All VMAT 漲尿 were designed 治療 the Pinnacle3 皆 planning system 次 45 Gy ^ 25 fractions. 擺位 errors were 以 using cone-beam 一次 tomography weekly 電腦 more frequently. 治療 toxicities were 副作用 using the 評估 Terminology Criteria 治療 Adverse Events 搭配 The chemotherapy 五位 were 5-fluorouracil-based, 使用 with oxaliplatin 所有 mitomycin. Five 皆 received bevacizumab 了術 a part 放射 the chemotherapy 也 All patients 了 neoadjuvant CCRT 切除 received post-CCRT 的 resection. Two 了 pathological complete 反應 (pCR), and 病人 of these 病理 bevacizumab. Nine 期別 10 patients 只有 T or 病理 downstaging. Only 淋巴 patient had 最常見 nodal involvement. 副作用 most common 級 were grade 級 or 2 皮膚 skin reaction 或 diarrhea. No 任何 experienced more 第三 grade 3 以上 There was 副作用 difference in 副作用 between patients 使用 or without 擺位 The average 在 in longitudinal, 及前 and vertical 分別 in the 公分 group was 公分 cm, 0.21 之 and 0.37 在 respectively. The 及前 deviation of 方向 at longitudinal, 公分 and vertical 公分 ranged from 是否 cm, 0.06-0.20 併 and 0.11-0.52 俯臥 respectively.Conclusions: Using 放射 and prone 併 on a 治療 board in 且 CCRT with 治療 without bevacizumab 副作用 rectal cancer 可 feasible and 範圍 The treatmentrelated 反應 was acceptable 不錯 the treatment 成效 was satisfactory. 需要 technique requires 擺位 attention in 校正 errors.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 前 and treatment 調控 of using 合 modulated arc 化學 (VMAT) and 局部 as neoadjvuant 病患 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) 副作用 rectal cancer.Materials 初步 Methods: Ten 材料 with stage 自西元 rectal adenocarcinoma 至 underwent neoadjuvant 月 using prone-position 分期 from April 之 to December 接受 were enrolled 術 this study. 弧形 patients were 治療 on a 化學 board with 所有 full bladder. 使用 VMAT plans 漲尿 designed with 治療 Pinnacle3 9.0 皆 system with 次 Gy in ^ fractions. Setup 擺位 were corrected 以 cone-beam computed 一次 weekly or 電腦 frequently. Treatment 治療 were graded 副作用 the Common 評估 Criteria for 治療 Events v4.0. 搭配 chemotherapy regimens 五位 5-fluorouracil-based, combined 使用 oxaliplatin or 所有 Five patients 皆 bevacizumab as 了術 part of 放射 chemotherapy regimen.Results: 也 patients completed 了 CCRT and 切除 post-CCRT surgical 的 Two had 了 complete response 反應 and both 病人 these received 病理 Nine of 期別 patients had 只有 or N 病理 Only one 淋巴 had pathological 最常見 involvement. The 副作用 common toxicities 級 grade 1 級 2 anal 皮膚 reaction and 或 No patient 任何 more than 第三 3 toxicity. 以上 was no 副作用 in toxicity 副作用 patients with 使用 without bevacizumab. 擺位 average displacement 在 longitudinal, lateral, 及前 vertical directions 分別 the whole 公分 was 0.24 公分 0.21 cm, 之 0.37 cm, 在 The standard 及前 of displacement 方向 longitudinal, lateral, 公分 vertical directions 公分 from 0.09-0.34 是否 0.06-0.20 cm, 併 0.11-0.52 cm, 俯臥 Using VMAT 放射 prone position 併 a belly 治療 in neoadjuvant 且 with or 治療 bevacizumab for 副作用 cancer is 可 and safe. 範圍 treatmentrelated toxicity 反應 acceptable and 不錯 treatment response 成效 satisfactory. Proneposition 需要 requires more 擺位 in setup 校正
目的 To compare 強度 dosimetric advantage 及 helical tomotherapy 治療 over intensity-modulated 全頭 therapy (IMAT) 時 sliding window 異 radiation therapy 研究 for total 因惡性 irradiation.Methods: Three 全頭 plans (SW-IMRT, 治療 and HT) 此 generated for 範圍 73 year-old 放射 with scalp 弧形 undergoing IMRT. 刀三種 doses to 劑量 planning target 比 (PTV) were 中 Gy. Conformity 之 doses to 研究 brain and 三種 number of 的 units (MU), 的 treatment times 水晶 compared between 治療 Plan verification 總 a phantom 後 was also 實驗 to compare 臨床 radiation planning 的 The coverage 的 of the 覆蓋 and homogeneous 質 were 0.99/1.10 調控 SW-IMRT, 0.95/1.14 強度 IMAT, and 為 for HT. 技術 conformation numbers 為 the three 調控 were 0.74, 高 and 0.69, 腦組織 The proportions 調控 normal brain 螺旋 above 30 弧形 Gy were 強度 for IMRT, 顯 for IMAT 其 20.6%/7.4% for 較 Although IMAT 監測 no superior 少 advantage over 假體 a lower 比較 of MUs 的 a shorter 結論 time were 全頭 for IMAT. 病人 phantom study 技術 similar dosimetric 標靶 For patients 和 total scalp 而 these three 於 provide comparable 的 coverage. HT 於 the brain 與 than IMAT and SW-IMRT.
Purpose: 目的 compare the 強度 advantage of 及 tomotherapy (HT) 治療 intensity-modulated arc 全頭 (IMAT) and 時 window intensity-modulated 異 therapy (SW-IMRT) 研究 total scalp 因惡性 Three treatment 全頭 (SW-IMRT, IMAT 治療 HT) were 此 for a 範圍 year-old man 放射 scalp angiosarcoma 弧形 IMRT. The 刀三種 to the 劑量 target volume 比 were 50 中 Conformity indexes, 之 to the 研究 and lens, 三種 of monitor 的 (MU), and 的 times were 水晶 between techniques. 治療 verification using 總 phantom study 後 also performed 實驗 compare the 臨床 planning results.Results: 的 coverage factors 的 the PTV 覆蓋 homogeneous index 質 0.99/1.10 for 調控 0.95/1.14 for 強度 and 0.99/1.04 為 HT. The 技術 numbers for 為 three plans 調控 0.74, 0.74, 高 0.69, respectively. 腦組織 proportions of 調控 brain receiving 螺旋 30 Gy/40 弧形 were 43.8%/10.4% 強度 IMRT, 40.7%/18.5% 顯 IMAT and 其 for HT. 較 IMAT showed 監測 superior dosimetric 少 over SW-IMRT, 假體 lower number 比較 MUs and 的 shorter treatment 結論 were needed 全頭 IMAT. The 病人 study had 技術 dosimetric results.Conclusion: 標靶 patients receiving 和 scalp irradiation, 而 three techniques 於 comparable target 的 HT spares 於 brain better 與 IMAT and SW-IMRT.
目的 This research 主要 focused on 測量 skin dose 調強 simulated phantoms 治療 head-and-neck patients 以及 with radiation 病人 the reliability 測 measured tool 的 the skin 與 in vivo 採用 the headand-neck 型 and Methods: 量計 experiment adopted 變色 mm ultrathin 做 dosimeters (ultrathin 量測 and ISP 做 EBT film 研究 the measured 區的 to establish 在 characteristics and 模擬 region. Superficial 淋巴 at hypothetical 表面 lymphatic regions 此 measured with 的 head/neck phantom 的 anthropomorphic Rando 計畫系 Seven-field IMRT 作 with a 劑 dose of 的 cGy were 照野 using an 進行 treatment planning 量測 Two different 絕對 phantoms were 測量 to measure 之 absolute dose 變異 two measured 數在 In this 值 the variance 劑量 of ultrathin 呈現 was within 係 The reading 軟片 and delivered 上 were in 之 good linear 數在 The points 校正 calibration curve 穩定 Gafchromic film 係 within 1% 與 in a 測值 performance. The 假體 surface measured 腫瘤 for simulated 兩者 with tumor 的 mm shrinkage 量 5%. The 小 surface measured 為 for EBT 劑量 and ultrathin 右 with a 的 dose of 為 cGy were 之間 cGy~104.66 cGy 的 93.99 cGy~103.72 為 on right 左側 neck of 測值 head/neck phantom, 測結果 cGy~113.91 cGy 之間 99.77 cGy~116.85 的 on left 測結果 neck of 之間 head/neck phantom, 劑量 The mean 右 measured doses 的 EBT film 為 ultrathin TLD 薄片 99.39 cGy~122.49 的 and 104.43 為 cGy on 左 side neck 測值 Rando® phantom, 測結果 cGy~125.02 cGy 之間 113.15 cGy~121.80 的 on left 測結果 neck of 之間 phantom, respectively.Conclusion 討論 Discussion: From 得知 experimental results, 型 TLD and 量計 film can 變色 adopted as 合用 measured tools 表面 surface dose. 量測 future work 本 this research 將統 gather statistics 人體 the skin 反應時 indeed affected 的 the skin 以期 received from 最 for clinical 皮膚 To evaluate 並評 of skin 不同 and measure 時 accurate skin 毒性 and this 找出 can be 皮膚 references for 劑量 reaction gradings.
Purpose: 目的 research was 主要 on the 測量 dose of 調強 phantoms for 治療 patients treated 以及 radiation and 病人 reliability of 測 tool for 的 skin dose 與 vivo of 採用 headand-neck patients.Materials 型 Methods: This 量計 adopted 0.1 變色 ultrathin thermoluminescent 做 (ultrathin TLD) 量測 ISP Gafchromic 做 film as 研究 measured tool 區的 establish the 在 and buildup 模擬 Superficial doses 淋巴 hypothetical neck 表面 regions were 此 with IMRT 的 phantom and 的 Rando phantom. 計畫系 IMRT plans 作 a prescribed 劑 of 180 的 were designed 照野 an Eclipse 進行 planning system. 量測 different geometric 絕對 were used 測量 measure the 之 dose for 變異 measured tools.Result: 數在 this experiment 值 variance coefficient 劑量 ultrathin TLD 呈現 within 3%. 係 reading values 軟片 delivered doses 上 in a 之 linear relationship. 數在 points on 校正 curve of 穩定 film were 係 1% and 與 a stable 測值 The mean 假體 measured doses 腫瘤 simulated phantoms 兩者 tumor 3 的 shrinkage within 量 The mean 小 measured doses 為 EBT film 劑量 ultrathin TLD 右 a prescribed 的 of 180 為 were 93.25 之間 cGy and 的 cGy~103.72 cGy 為 right side 左側 of IMRT 測值 phantom, 99.57 測結果 cGy and 之間 cGy~116.85 cGy 的 left side 測結果 of IMRT 之間 phantom, respectively. 劑量 mean surface 右 doses for 的 film and 為 TLD were 薄片 cGy~122.49 cGy 的 104.43 cGy~120.97 為 on right 左 neck of 測值 phantom, 114.54 測結果 cGy and 之間 cGy~121.80 cGy 的 left side 測結果 of Rando® 之間 respectively.Conclusion and 討論 From the 得知 results, ultrathin 型 and EBT 量計 can be 變色 as the 合用 tools for 表面 dose. The 量測 work for 本 research could 將統 statistics of 人體 skin reactions 反應時 affected by 的 skin dose 以期 from radiation 最 clinical applications. 皮膚 evaluate severity 並評 skin reaction 不同 measure most 時 skin dose, 毒性 this data 找出 be used 皮膚 for skin 劑量 gradings.
目的 The purpose 之 this study 在 to evaluate 調控 accuracy of ; delivery in 調控 and VMAT.Method 技術 Materials: The 放射 2D-ARRAY consists 準確性 729 vented 方法 chambers with 離腔 dedicated phantom 假體 Octavius were 放射 to acquire ; 2D dose 弧形 for the 技術 and VMAT 量 One limitation 農夫型 the PTW 水假體 is the 證系 angular dependency, 單點 we had 劑量 the correction 中選取 for VMAT 強度 Another dosimetry 病患 consists of 體積 farmer type 治療 chamber (Wellhofer 治療 and solid 測 phantom was 調控 to measure 均 selected point 轉臂 Total of 進行劑 IMRT and 分析 VMAT plans 弧形 included in 技術則 study. IMRT 弧形 were verified 角度 perpendicular deliveries 但是 0 degree 有 angle. VMAT 問題 were measured 針對 actual treatment 放射 and then 而言 corrections were 量分析 after the 給予 We performed 因子 comparison with 分布 and 3mm 採用 to evaluate 估標 results of 小 2D dose 距 The significant 於 dependences of 在 2D-ARRAY were 介 at the 度之間 gantry angle 之 90 to 存在 degrees, especially 角度 both 90 和 270 degrees, 明顯 was parallel 入射角 the measured 平面 of PTW 結果 The gamma 角度 of the 和 angle 90 之 270 were 分別 and 22.3% 光子 6 MV 加馬 beam and 和 and 37.2% 之量 10 MV 病患 beam.The mean 平均 doses variation 為 each measurements 分析 treatment plans 調控 all IMRT/VMAT 病患 was -1.0% 平均 % (mean 為 std). The 調控 gamma factor 治療 IMRT QA 計劃 98.3%+/- 2.1%. 角度 the mean 修正 factor in 平均 full-arc VMAT 而 was 95.6+/-2.6% 介 applied acorrection 結論 range from 量測 to 1.040. 強度 the 2D 治療 maps showed 佳 agreements in 但是 IMRT/VMAT QA.Conclusions: 測量 2D-ARRAY has 弧形 performance in 之劑 angle IMRT, 性時 has limitations 依存性 by angular 應用 in VMAT 建議 We suggest 量測 correction factor 放射 be applied 量 every measured 針對 of 2D 計劃 maps when 校正 PTW 2D-ARRAY 得到 a full-arc 測量 QA.
Purpose: 目的 purpose of 之 study was 在 evaluate the 調控 of dose ; in IMRT 調控 VMAT.Method and 技術 The PTW 放射 consists of 準確性 vented ionization 方法 with a 離腔 phantom called 假體 were used 放射 acquire the ; dose distributions 弧形 the IMRT 技術 VMAT plans. 量 limitation of 農夫型 PTW 2D-ARRAY 水假體 the significant 證系 dependency, so 單點 had measured 劑量 correction factors 中選取 VMAT plans. 強度 dosimetry system 病患 of a 體積 type ion 治療 (Wellhofer FC-65P) 治療 solid water 測 was used 調控 measure the 均 point dose. 轉臂 of 19 進行劑 and 8 分析 plans were 弧形 in this 技術則 IMRT plans 弧形 verified with 角度 deliveries at 但是 degree gantry 有 VMAT plans 問題 measured with 針對 treatment arcs, 放射 then the 而言 were applied 量分析 the measurements. 給予 performed gamma 因子 with 3% 分布 3mm criteria 採用 evaluate the 估標 of all 小 dose maps.Results: 距 significant angular 於 of PTW 在 were showed 介 the measured 度之間 angle between 之 to 270 存在 especially at 角度 90 and 和 degrees, which 明顯 parallel with 入射角 measured plane 平面 PTW 2D-ARRAY. 結果 gamma factors 角度 the gantry 和 90 and 之 were 13.1% 分別 22.3% for 光子 MV photon 加馬 and 31.7% 和 37.2% for 之量 MV photon 病患 mean point 平均 variation between 為 measurements and 分析 plans in 調控 IMRT/VMAT QA 病患 -1.0% +/-1.0 平均 (mean +/- 為 The mean 調控 factor of 治療 QA was 計劃 2.1%. And 角度 mean gamma 修正 in the 平均 VMAT QA 而 95.6+/-2.6% after 介 acorrection factor 結論 from 1.007 量測 1.040. Therefore, 強度 2D dose 治療 showed great 佳 in all 但是 QA.Conclusions: PTW 測量 has better 弧形 in static 之劑 IMRT, but 性時 limitations caused 依存性 angular dependences 應用 VMAT QA. 建議 suggest a 量測 factor should 放射 applied to 量 measured points 針對 2D dose 計劃 when using 校正 2D-ARRAY for 得到 full-arc VMAT 測量
目的 Verification of 電子 distributions for 驗證 Volumetric Modulated 設備 Therapy (VMAT) 劑量 plans with 軟體 Portal Imaging 弧形 (EPID) and 治療 associated software.Materials 的 Methods: Epiqa 分布 software to 與 the EPID 是 into dose 基 based on 理論 GLAaS theory. 驗證 can be 影像 to verify 成劑 dose distributions 圖 RapidArc therapy. 軟體 convert images 來驗證 dose map, 強度 need to 治療 calibration factors 量 each pixel 轉換 covert the 劑量 values into 必需 dose in 校正 For the 程序 of calibration, 大小 set of 野及 images for 照野 and transmission 影像 of different 使用 sizes are 測量 and consequently 輸出 into Epiqa 數表 with the 電子 factor table 驗證 establish basic 每 configuration data. 像素 calibration factor 校正 then be 將 for every 讀值 of EPID 為 by weighting 水中 contribution of 的 and transmitted 透過 The pixel 的 calibration relates 可以 readout of 驗證 pixel to 的 dose at 像素 depth of 在 in water 深度 homogenous medium. 的 applying the 劑量 factors to 便 pixels of 治療 EPID images, 與 planar dose 影像 at the 裝置 in water 劑量 obtained. A 比 of 20 而 (70 arcs 之驗證 total) were 研究 in this 位 7 with 強度 cancers, 2 放射 breast cancer, 案例 with rectal 其中 4 with 位 and 4 腺癌 other sites.Results 乳癌 The Distance 腸癌 Agreement (DTA) 鼻咽癌 the Dose 位 (ΔD) for 結果 Gamma Agreement 影像 (GAI) of 裝置 parameters with 參數 were set 加馬值 3 mm 吻合 less than 為 respectively. The 量差 GAI (%) Δ patients in 病患 study is 平均 ± 3.19 ] GAI (%) 而 prostate cancer, 腺癌 cancer, rectal 鼻咽癌 NPC, and 其它 sites is 的 ± 4.03 [ 97.43 ± 分別 (98.86-96.24), 92.96 與 2.51 (97.19-89.01), 的 ± 2.31 呈現 and 94.95 好 2.48 (98.9-90.76), 結果 The GAI 達到 for breast 攝護 had a 的 result, with 患者 lowest value 中 96.24. For 個 of the [ cancer patient 值 with 3 以下 there are 利用 arcs had 軟體驗證 GAI value 運算 90%.Conclusions: It 的 an easy 作為 feasible way 驗證 apply the 工具 with Epiqa 一種 as dosimetry 且 tool for 的 We will 希望 more clinical 更 to come 臨床 a better 驗證 verification procedure 使未來 VMAT in 驗證 near future.
Purpose: 目的 of dose 電子 for RapidArc 驗證 Modulated Arc 設備 (VMAT) treatment 劑量 with Electronic 軟體 Imaging Device 弧形 and its 治療 software.Materials and 的 Epiqa is 分布 to covert 與 EPID images 是 dose map 基 on the 理論 theory. It 驗證 be used 影像 verify the 成劑 distributions for 圖 therapy. To 軟體 images into 來驗證 map, we 強度 to have 治療 factors for 量 pixel to 轉換 the pixel 劑量 into dmax 必需 in water. 校正 the purpose 程序 calibration, a 大小 of integrated 野及 for open 照野 transmission fields 影像 different field 使用 are acquired 測量 consequently imported 輸出 Epiqa together 數表 the output 電子 table to 驗證 basic algorithm 每 data. A 像素 factor can 校正 be determined 將 every pixel 讀值 EPID images 為 weighting the 水中 of primary 的 transmitted radiation. 透過 pixel based 的 relates the 可以 of a 驗證 to a 的 at the 像素 of dmax 在 water equivalent 深度 medium. By 的 the conversion 劑量 to all 便 of the 治療 images, a 與 dose distribution 影像 the dmax 裝置 water is 劑量 A total 比 20 patients 而 arcs in 之驗證 were included 研究 this study, 位 with prostate 強度 2 with 放射 cancer, 4 案例 rectal cancer, 其中 with NPC, 位 4 with 腺癌 sites.Results : 乳癌 Distance to 腸癌 (DTA) and 鼻咽癌 Dose Difference 位 for The 結果 Agreement Index 影像 of dosimetry 裝置 with EPID 參數 set as 加馬值 mm and 吻合 than 3% 為 The average 量差 (%) of Δ in our 病患 is 94.32 平均 3.19 (99.06-81.31). ] (%) for 而 cancer, breast 腺癌 rectal cancer, 鼻咽癌 and other 其它 is 93.62 的 4.03 (99.06-81.31), [ ± 1.14 分別 92.96 ± 與 (97.19-89.01), 94.98 的 2.31 (97.64-89.09), 呈現 94.95 ± 好 (98.9-90.76), respectively. 結果 GAI (%) 達到 breast cancer 攝護 a better 的 with a 患者 value of 中 For one 個 the prostate [ patient treated 值 3 arcs, 以下 are two 利用 had a 軟體驗證 value below 運算 It is 的 easy and 作為 way to 驗證 the EPID 工具 Epiqa software 一種 dosimetry verification 且 for VMAT. 的 will gather 希望 clinical data 更 come out 臨床 better dosimetry 驗證 procedure for 使未來 in the 驗證 future.
目的 Owning to 醫學 extended waiting 放射 and the 因為 of treatment 的 the department 排人數 radiation oncology 正常 a medical 避免 referred its 就醫 outpatients to 時間 regional hospital 轉介 was affiliated 於 the same 但 care system 治療 equipped with 的 linear accelerator 以及 but located 本 the Taipei 瞭解 The purpose 轉介 this study 及家屬 to survey 服務 opinion and 看法 of referred 需求 and their 未來 member to 科醫療 service mode, 的 to provide 與 reference for 自 quality improvement.Material 至 Method: Between 共計 2010 and 中心 2012, there 病患 65 patients 區域 to the 接受 teaching hospital 治療 radiotherapy. A 採自擬 structural questionnaire 結構 designed according 依門診 the characteristic 病患 outpatient at 設計 of radiation 分析 Statistical analysis 轉介 performed to 及 the consideration 的 satisfaction with 結果 referral mode.Results 決定 When patient 接受 to accept 考量 referral or 不想 the most 治療 factor in 因 making was 的 of being 最 or the 因素 associated with 基 (56.9%), the 同一 was the 係 in the 願意 health care 則是 (23%), and 有 third was 及 convenience in 其中 and parking 的 The service 專屬 most satisfied 的 were the 是 reserved daily 的 schedule (55.4%), 免費 the free 整體 shuttle to 數的 fro the 肯定 center and 跨院區 hospital. In 模式 most patients 的 acknowledged this 質 mode and 滿意 service quality 結論 this regional 重大 Cancer is 是 serious disease, 本身 both patients 都 and hospital 儘 to complete 治療 treatment as 遇到 as possible. 資源 circumstances when 需求 resources can 他院 meet the 有責任 and referral 妥善 suggested, hospital 醫療 provide proper 跨院區 In spite 模式 transportation across 是 referral within 癌症 same health 的 system has 做到 in ensuring 以維持 execution and 品質 of cancer 調查 The considerations 及家屬 opinions to 的 referral mode 與 provide useful 提供 for medical 經營 management and 制定 policy making.
Purpose: 目的 to the 醫學 waiting list 放射 the possibility 因為 treatment delay, 的 department of 排人數 oncology at 正常 medical center 避免 its waiting 就醫 to another 時間 hospital which 轉介 affiliated to 於 same health 但 system and 治療 with similar 的 accelerator facility, 以及 located across 本 Taipei basin. 瞭解 purpose of 轉介 study is 及家屬 survey the 服務 and demand 看法 referred patients 需求 their family 未來 to this 科醫療 mode, and 的 provide a 與 for future 自 improvement.Material and 至 Between December 共計 and January 中心 there were 病患 patients referred 區域 the regional 接受 hospital for 治療 A self-constructed 採自擬 questionnaire was 結構 according to 依門診 characteristic of 病患 at department 設計 radiation oncology. 分析 analysis was 轉介 to investigate 及 consideration and 的 with this 結果 mode.Results : 決定 patient considering 接受 accept trans-hospital 考量 or not, 不想 most critical 治療 in decision 因 was fear 的 being delayed 最 the anxiety 因素 with waiting 基 the second 同一 the confidence 係 the same 願意 care system 則是 and the 有 was the 及 in transportation 其中 parking (20.1%). 的 service patients 專屬 satisfied with 的 the exclusively 是 daily treatment 的 (55.4%), and 免費 free transportation 整體 to and 數的 the medical 肯定 and regional 跨院區 In general, 模式 patients (89.2%) 的 this referral 質 and the 滿意 quality of 結論 regional hospital.Conclusion: 重大 is a 是 disease, and 本身 patients themselves 都 hospital hope 儘 complete the 治療 as soon 遇到 possible. In 資源 when medical 需求 can not 他院 the needs 有責任 referral are 妥善 hospital must 醫療 proper arrangement. 跨院區 spite of 模式 across district, 是 within the 癌症 health care 的 has advantages 做到 ensuring the 以維持 and consistency 品質 cancer treatment. 調查 considerations and 及家屬 to this 的 mode can 與 useful reference 提供 medical business 經營 and health 制定 making.
我們 sequencing may 一名 a feasible 診斷 of individualizing 癌合 treatment. By 處 the correlation 個案 genetic profiles 基因 treatment outcomes 我們 chemotherapy, it 最合 be possible 組合 determine effective 控制 strategies according 後 individual genotypes 原發 cancer patients. 外科 great advances 並對 drugs for 轉移 treatment, treatment 進行 may be 放射 by analyzing 經電腦 markers that 攝影 treatment efficacy. 完全 report the 臨 for a 數篇關 with metastatic 性 cancer in 基因 gene sequencing 臨床 used for 甚至 selection of 研究 effective chemotherapy 基因 In addition, 多種 describe the 結果 course of 選擇 including the 尚待 of surgical 研究 for local 於 and radiotherapy 前瞻性 eradicate distant 來 This is 定序 pilot report 治療 the clinical 臨床 of gene 藉由 for determining 研究 treatment regimen. 將來 clinical trials 人 needed to 組成 the personalization 最佳 cancer treatment.
Gene 我們 may be 一名 feasible means 診斷 individualizing cancer 癌合 By investigating 處 correlation between 個案 profiles and 基因 outcomes of 我們 it may 最合 possible to 組合 effective treatment 控制 according to 後 genotypes in 原發 patients. Despite 外科 advances in 並對 for cancer 轉移 treatment outcomes 進行 be improved 放射 analyzing genetic 經電腦 that indicate 攝影 efficacy. We 完全 the treatment 臨 a patient 數篇關 metastatic colon 性 in which 基因 sequencing was 臨床 for the 甚至 of an 研究 chemotherapy regimen. 基因 addition, we 多種 the entire 結果 of treatment, 選擇 the combination 尚待 surgical resection 研究 local control 於 radiotherapy to 前瞻性 distant metastases. 來 is a 定序 report of 治療 clinical use 臨床 gene sequencing 藉由 determining a 研究 regimen. Further 將來 trials are 人 to optimize 組成 personalization of 最佳 treatment.
目的 The association 討論 weight loss 簡稱 radiotherapy (RT) ” patients' survival 對 not been 本文 in patients 前後體 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 鼻咽癌 This study 的 aimed to 討論 this association 體質量 also determine 上述 pretreatment body 材料 index (BMI) 研究 the association 位 weight loss 於 overall survival.Methods: 庚 NPC patients 根治性 between 1995 病患 2007 undergoing 放療 RT were ≧ enrolled. Survival 與 were performed . stratification according 後 weight change 最後進行 vs.＜5%) and 多 BMI (≧25 統計 respectively. Cox 因子 hazards model 前後體 carried out 與 evaluate the 相關 of weight 療程 pretreatment BMI 下降 survival controlling 會 the other 年齡 relevant factors.Results: 否 change (≧5%) 和 RT is 的 influenced by 病人 chemotherapy, RT 項 and pretreatment 分析 A statistically 療程 association between 與 status of 存活率 change and 皆 survival could 的 identified both 若進 univariate and 前 analyses. After ＜ stratification by 放療 (≧25 or＜25), 重 is a 對 positive impact 正面 weight loss≧5% 在 survival particularly 過重 the patients 之次 are overweight 上 obese (p=0.046, 結論 test).Conclusions: A 鼻咽癌 loss≧5% during 放療 confers a 減少 favorable overall 者 in NPC 存活率 who are 放療 overweight or 之次 (BMI≧25). The 之 for this 尚需 warrants further 研究 with regard 的 locoregional control 鼻咽癌 underlying biological mechanisms.
Objectives/Hypothesis: 目的 association between 討論 loss during 簡稱 (RT) and ” survival has 對 been assessed 本文 patients with 前後體 carcinoma (NPC). 鼻咽癌 study was 的 to investigate 討論 association and 體質量 determine whether 上述 body mass 材料 (BMI) affects 研究 association between 位 loss and 於 survival.Methods: 1583 庚 patients diagnosed 根治性 1995 and 病患 undergoing definitive 放療 were consecutively ≧ Survival analyses 與 performed with . according to 後 change (≧5% 最後進行 and pretreatment 多 (≧25 vs.＜25) 統計 Cox proportional 因子 model was 前後體 out to 與 the impact 相關 weight change, 療程 BMI on 下降 controlling for 會 other clinically 年齡 factors.Results: Weight 否 (≧5%) during 和 is significantly 的 by age, 病人 RT duration 項 pretreatment BMI. 分析 statistically significant 療程 between the 與 of weight 存活率 and overall 皆 could be 的 both in 若進 and multivariate 前 After further ＜ by BMI 放療 or＜25), there 重 a significantly 對 impact of 正面 loss≧5% on 在 particularly among 過重 patients who 之次 overweight or 上 (p=0.046, log-rank 結論 A weight 鼻咽癌 during RT 放療 a more 減少 overall survival 者 NPC patients 存活率 are initially 放療 or obese 之次 The explanation 之 this phenomenon 尚需 further analyses 研究 regard to 的 control and 鼻咽癌 biological mechanisms.
: To compare : resonance imaging : and computed ( (CT) in ( intracranial extension ( the patients ) nasopharyngeal carcinoma ) and to ( the impact ( treatment outcome.Materials ( Methods: From ) 1997 to ) 2004, 587 ( with histologically ( NPC (Iess ( or equal ) stage IVA ) to American . Committee on . sixth edition) . received therapeutic : dose who : CT and ( for evaluation ( primary tumor ( AII o ) the images ) reviewed and . by two . independently. Cases . variable interpretation . disagreement between . observers, these . were reevaluated . by side . any discrepancy . resolved by . The kappa : for inter-observer : was 0.841 : CT and ( for MRI.Results: ( detection rate ＜ intracranial invasion ＜ MRI was ＜ and that ) CT was ) (p＜0.001). The ) with no . invasion detected . MRI or ( (group 1) ( significantly higher ( survival rate ) intracranial invasion ) by MRI ( not by ( (group 2, ( or intracranial ＜ detected by ＜ MRI and ) (group 3, ) For group ) patients, chemotherapy ( radiotherapy had ( overall survival ＜ than radiotherapy ＜ (p＜0.001). Group ＜ and 3 ) the odd ) of 3.2 . 4.0 comparing . group 1 . Cox regression. ( to different ( modalities, patients ＜ by radiotherapy ＜ had odd ＜ of 2.6 ) to chemotherapy ) radiotherapy.Conclusion: MRI . a higher . invasion detection . than CT. . with intracranial . should receive . chemotherapy and . in order . improve overall : even those : only subtle . invasion.
Purpose: : compare magnetic : imaging (MRI) : computed tomography ( in detecting ( extension of ( patients with ) carcinoma (NPC) ) to analyze ( impact on ( outcome.Materials and ( From December ) to December ) 587 patients ( histologically confirmed ( (Iess than ( equal to ) IVA according ) American Joint . on Cancer, . edition) and . therapeutic radiation : who underwent : and MRI ( evaluation of ( tumor extension. ( o f ) images were ) and assessed . two physicians . Cases with . interpretation or . between the . these images . reevaluated side . side and . discrepancy was . by consensus. . kappa test : inter-observer concordance : 0.841 for : and 0.931 ( MRI.Results: The ( rate of ＜ invasion by ＜ was 62.7% ＜ that by ) was 15.5% ) The group ) no intracranial . detected by . or CT ( 1) had ( higher overall ( rate than ) invasion detected ) MRI but ( by CT ( 2, p＜0.001) ( intracranial invasion ＜ by both ＜ and CT ) 3, p＜0.001). ) group 2 ) chemotherapy plus ( had higher ( survival rate ＜ radiotherapy alone ＜ Group 2 ＜ 3 had ) odd ratio ) 3.2 and . comparing to . 1 by . regression. According ( different treatment ( patients treated ＜ radiotherapy alone ＜ odd ratio ＜ 2.6 comparing ) chemotherapy plus ) MRI owned . higher intracranial . detection rate . CT. Patients . intracranial involvement . receive both . and radiotherapy . order to . overall survival, : those with : subtle intracranial .
目的 To check 研究 clinical normal 頸癌 effects of 包括 analyses in 細胞癌 clinical (QUANTEC) 鼻咽癌 by using 進行 of life 品質 questionnaire dataset 驗證 the head 正常 neck (HN) 效應 including head 準則 neck squamous 方法 carcinoma (HNSCC) 位 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 位 patients.Materials and 的 Questionnaires of 查分 for 95 進行 with NPC 並 142 with 癌症 were analysed, 與 the European 組織 for Research 提供 Treatment of 問卷 H&N35 QoL 結果 was performed 作為 the endpoint 療效 Compared with 治療 the degree 比 QoL scoring 如果 66-100 points 的 defined as 評為 to severe 分 We used 義為 Lyman-Kutcher-Burman normal 使用 complication probability 等 (NTCP) to 所 the incidence 的 xerostomia. Negative 併 value (NPV) 機率 used to 借述 the prediction 症 of the 並用 The fitting 預測值 of NTCP 決定 set at 發生 time points, 的 3-months and 確率 with TD50=39.8 的 m=0.28 and 參數 45.2 Gy, 個 respectively. We 分別 that the 個 gland with 以及 mean doses 月 less than 當 and 25 的 in the 小 and HNSCC 和 were verified 個 similar results 時 3 months. 驗證 the analysis 相似 the QoL 結果 at 3 分析 showed that 分別 ~6% and 約 rates of 和 and those 而 12 months 個 that about 時 and ~14%, 分別 For patients 和 NPC, the 患者 showed that 顯示 the ~0% 個 ~33% opportunity 分別 to produce 有 at 3 約 (NPV of 的 67%). However, 在 data showed 月 ~0% (NPV 機率 approximately 100%) 約 12 months. 為 are with 與 difference from 結果 results for 結論 HNSCC cohort.Conclusion: 分析 QoL datasets 資料 the practicality 準則 QUANTEC guidelines. 並建議 proposed amendments 腮腺 the parotid 準則 QUANTEC 20/20 此數據 spared-gland guideline 的 HNSCC cohort. 使用 the QUANTEC 有效 Gy guideline 避免 applicable to 的 clinical use 為 the NPC, 用 can effectively 患者 xerostomia.
Purpose: 目的 check the 研究 normal tissue 頸癌 of quantitative 包括 in the 細胞癌 (QUANTEC) guidelines 鼻咽癌 using quality 進行 life (QoL) 品質 dataset on 驗證 head and 正常 (HN) cancers, 效應 head and 準則 squamous cell 方法 (HNSCC) and 位 carcinoma (NPC) 位 and Methods: 的 of QoL 查分 95 patients 進行 NPC and 並 with HNSCC 癌症 analysed, and 與 European Organization 組織 Research and 提供 of Cancer 問卷 QoL questionnaire 結果 performed as 作為 endpoint assessment. 療效 with pre-treatment, 治療 degree of 比 scoring of 如果 points were 的 as moderate 評為 severe xerostomia. 分 used the 義為 normal tissue 使用 probability model 等 to describe 所 incidence of 的 Negative predictive 併 (NPV) was 機率 to determine 借述 prediction accuracy 症 the complications.Results: 並用 fitting parameters 預測值 NTCP were 決定 at two 發生 points, for 的 and 12-month 確率 TD50=39.8 Gy, 的 and TD50= 參數 Gy, m=0.24, 個 We found 分別 the parotid 個 with the 以及 doses of 月 than 20 當 25 Gy 的 the HN 小 HNSCC cohorts 和 verified with 個 results at 時 months. Besides, 驗證 analysis of 相似 QoL datasets 結果 3 months 分析 that about 分別 and ~16% 約 of xerostomia, 和 those at 而 months showed 個 about ~5% 時 ~14%, respectively. 分別 patients with 和 the data 患者 that about 顯示 ~0% and 個 opportunity respectively 分別 produce xerostomia 有 3 months 約 of approximately 的 However, both 在 showed that 月 (NPV of 機率 100%) at 約 months. There 為 with significant 與 from the 結果 for the 結論 cohort.Conclusion: The 分析 datasets testified 資料 practicality of 準則 guidelines. We 並建議 amendments to 腮腺 parotid gland 準則 20/20 Gy 此數據 guideline for 的 cohort. Moreover, 使用 QUANTEC 25 有效 guideline was 避免 to the 的 use of 為 NPC, which 用 effectively avoid 患者
目的 The early 診斷 of hepatocellular 細胞癌 (HCC) is 重要 tremendous importance 以作 prevent this 其發展 and frequently 具破 cancer. Therefore, 高好 is required 的 identify novel 所以 specific HCC 在 marker(s) to 發展 HCC patients 便 non-HCC patients 一診斷 the early 區別 of HCC 或 We employed 是 enhanced laser 其 time-of-flight mass 此 (SELDI-TOF-MS) to 中 protein profiles 光譜 the serum 分析 Taiwanese HCC 族群 healthy, non-HCC 非 and Methods: 族群 SELDI-Chip-System was 中 to determine 圖譜 specific protein 及 in serum 晶片 obtained from 去 HCC and 人 subjects. The 細胞 training group 肝癌 of 63 之 from whom 內 was collected 型態 the Yuan's 於 Hospital (Taiwan). 阮 validate a 醫院 marker pattern, 檢者 second group 血清 63 Taiwanese 確認 was enrolled 在 whom serum 的 were also 收集 randomized, and 位台灣 in a 血清 validation study. 為 was applied 單盲 Ciphergen ProteinChip® 血清 Arrays and 系統 bound to 矩陣 chips were 並 using the 分析 Reader Model 上 II. After 質 the chips, 計讀 profiles of 所有 and tumor 腫瘤 were summarized 圖譜 the Biomarker 生物 software to 型態 master pattern 及 by analyses 其數 a clustering 顯示 and data 結果 By recruiting 尋兩組 groups of 作為 subjects for 效力 and validation, 我們 identified a 標記 pattern that 含有 four serum 標記 markers with 在 of 4091, 與 6840, and 研究 This study 一個 setting up 用做 artificial network 的 high specificity 與 sensitivity for 之 detection. In 就是 words, the 能鑑 biomarker pattern 生物 used to 型態 serum samples 分 HCC and 非 validation group 並於進 During the 實驗 experiment, it 此 that the 標記型 and specificity 敏度 the pattern 可 93.33% and 達到 respectively. The 這檢體 were used 來 analyze and 發展 a classification 分類 system.Conclusions: For 結論 first time, 首次 combined with 簡評 simple scoring 去 were employed 一特異性 identify a 標記 biomarker pattern 有效率 allowed to 意義的 and significantly 肝癌 Taiwanese HCC 族群 from non-HCC 肝癌
Purpose: 目的 early detection 診斷 hepatocellular carcinoma 細胞癌 is of 重要 importance to 以作 this devastating 其發展 frequently reported 具破 Therefore, it 高好 required to 的 novel and 所以 HCC diagnostic 在 to distinguish 發展 patients from 便 patients at 一診斷 early stage 區別 HCC development. 或 employed surface 是 laser desorption/ionization 其 mass spectrometry 此 to analyze 中 profiles in 光譜 serum of 分析 HCC and 族群 non-HCC subjects.Materials 非 Methods: The 族群 was used 中 determine a 圖譜 protein pattern 及 serum samples 晶片 from Taiwanese 去 and non-HCC 人 The initial 細胞 group consisted 肝癌 63 subjects 之 whom serum 內 collected at 型態 Yuan's General 於 (Taiwan). To 阮 a potential 醫院 pattern, a 檢者 group of 血清 Taiwanese subjects 確認 enrolled from 在 serum samples 的 also collected, 收集 and used 位台灣 a blind 血清 study. Serum 為 applied to 單盲 ProteinChip® SAX2 血清 and proteins 系統 to the 矩陣 were analyzed 並 the ProteinChip 分析 Model PBS 上 After reading 質 chips, all 計讀 of normal 所有 tumor serum 腫瘤 summarized using 圖譜 Biomarker pattern 生物 to a 型態 pattern followed 及 analyses using 其數 clustering method 顯示 data mining.Results: 結果 recruiting two 尋兩組 of 63 作為 for training 效力 validation, we 我們 a biomarker 標記 that contained 含有 serum protein 標記 with m/z 在 4091, 5637, 與 and 8567. 研究 study allowed 一個 up an 用做 network with 的 specificity and 與 for HCC 之 In other 就是 the identified 能鑑 pattern was 生物 to classify 型態 samples of 分 and non-HCC 非 group subjects. 並於進 the latter 實驗 it appeared 此 the sensitivity 標記型 specificity of 敏度 pattern was 可 and 93.93%, 達到 The specimens 這檢體 used to 來 and develop 發展 classification scoring 分類 For the 結論 time, SELDI-TOF-MS 首次 with a 簡評 scoring system 去 employed to 一特異性 a specific 標記 pattern that 有效率 to efficiently 意義的 significantly distinguish 肝癌 HCC patients 族群 non-HCC patients.
目的 To retrospectively 研究 the results 不明 patients with 癌經 squamous cell 放射 of the 之 and neck 及 from an 年 primary site 共 treated with 部位 radiation therapy 頸 in a 癌 institute.Methods and 轉介至 Fourteen male 強度 with a 治療 age of 數為 (range 33 距 67) who 歲 with unknown 及 SCCHN were 及 with IMRT 十二位 or without 頸部 chemotherapy from 術 to 2010. 淋巴 number of 有 with initial 之 of N1, 到 N2b and 九位 was, 1 病灶 3 (21%), 限 (43%) and 頸部 (29%), respectively. 五位 patients (86%) 結有 neck dissections 之 two had 接受 biopsies only. 術 patients (36%) 在 metastatic nodes 擴散 both upper 給予 lower neck, 沒有 9 (64%) 給予 nodes limited 接受 the upper 的 only. Five 病灶 patients presented 的 extracapsular spread 的 Patients undergoing 咽軸 dissection were 未 with a 淋巴 dose of 下 Gy to 接受 ECS surgical 研究 Those who 包含 not undergo 下 dissection were 黏膜 60 Gy. 聲帶 those who 下方 only excision 黏膜 70 Gy 個 prescribed to 追 tumor bed 病人 suspected Iymphadenopathy. 並且 all patients, 三年 median dose 及遠端 59.4 Gy 存活率 50 Gy 追 given to 間 pharyngeal mucosa 有 uninvolved lower 瘤 respectively. The 現 pharyngeal mucosa, 有 the nasopharynx, 發 surpaglottis and 控制率 hypopharynx, but 病人 the vocal 原發 and lower 一個 After a 食道 follow up 口腔 36.4 months, 亞組 patients (21%) 當 distant metastases 臨床 died, yielding 淋巴 3-year overall 下頸部 rate of 具有 There was ; occurrence of 低 occult primary 存活率 no local 無病 recurrence noted. 於 control rate 病人 100%. Two 淋巴 had second 相較 tumors noted 淋巴 the cervical 之 and the 較 mucosa. In 整體 analysis, patients 遠端 clinical N3 存活率 with nodal 方面 over the 有 neck region 急性 nodes possessing 四位 had significantly 黏膜 overall survival 白血球 poor distant 一位 survival rates. 發生 patients with 中 or cN3 的 those receiving 了 biopsy had 追 poor overall 目前 (p=0.001) and 第三 metastases-free survival 之 compared to 產生 undergoing neck 我們 There was 中 grade III 放射 toxicity during 閃避聲 In our 下 IMRT with 部位 cords and 降低 hypopharyngeal sparing 不會 achieve excellent 控制率 outcomes without 可以 disease control 用 may be 不明 as a 上皮 and effective 之 for SCCHN 有效 UPS Patients 對 clinical N3 下頸部 lower neck 以及 and nodes 囊外 ECS have 病人 poorer overall 較 and distant 存活率 survival rates. 無病 intense regimens 這群 be developed 更 such patients.
Purpose: 目的 retrospectively review 研究 results of 不明 with metastatic 癌經 cell carcinoma 放射 the head 之 neck (SCCHN) 及 an unknown 年 site (UPS) 共 with intensity-modulated 部位 therapy (IMRT) 頸 a single 癌 and Materials: 轉介至 male patients 強度 a median 治療 of 48 數為 33 to 距 who presented 歲 unknown primary 及 were treated 及 IMRT with 十二位 without cisplatin-based 頸部 from 2005 術 2010. The 淋巴 of patients 有 initial presentation 之 N1, N2a, 到 and N3 九位 1 (7%), 病灶 (21%), 6 限 and 4 頸部 respectively. Twelve 五位 (86%) received 結有 dissections and 之 had excision 接受 only. Five 術 (36%) had 在 nodes involving 擴散 upper and 給予 neck, where 沒有 (64%) had 給予 limited to 接受 upper neck 的 Five (36%) 病灶 presented with 的 spread (ECS). 的 undergoing neck 咽軸 were treated 未 a median 淋巴 of 66 下 to the 接受 surgical bed. 研究 who did 包含 undergo neck 下 were given 黏膜 Gy. For 聲帶 who had 下方 excision biopsy, 黏膜 Gy was 個 to the 追 bed and 病人 Iymphadenopathy. For 並且 patients, a 三年 dose of 及遠端 Gy and 存活率 Gy was 追 to the 間 mucosa and 有 lower neck, 瘤 The irradiated 現 mucosa, included 有 nasopharynx, oropharynx, 發 and upper 控制率 but spared 病人 vocal cords 原發 lower hypopharynx.Results: 一個 a median 食道 up of 口腔 months, four 亞組 (21%) developed 當 metastases and 臨床 yielding a 淋巴 overall survival 下頸部 of 79%. 具有 was no ; of the 低 primary and 存活率 local regional 無病 noted. The 於 rate was 病人 Two patients 淋巴 second primary 相較 noted over 淋巴 cervical esophagus 之 the buccal 較 In subgroup 整體 patients with 遠端 N3 stage, 存活率 nodal involvement 方面 the lower 有 region and 急性 possessing ECS 四位 significantly poorer 黏膜 survival and 白血球 distant metastases-free 一位 rates. In 發生 with cN2 中 cN3 disease, 的 receiving excision 了 had a 追 overall survival 目前 and distant 第三 survival (p=0.029) 之 to those 產生 neck dissection. 我們 was no 中 III chronic 放射 during follow-up.Conclusions: 閃避聲 our experience, 下 with vocal 部位 and lower 降低 sparing can 不會 excellent functional 控制率 without compromising 可以 control and 用 be adopted 不明 a safe 上皮 effective treatment 之 SCCHN of 有效 Patients with 對 N3 stage, 下頸部 neck involvement 以及 nodes with 囊外 have significantly 病人 overall survival 較 distant metastases-free 存活率 rates. More 無病 regimens should 這群 developed for 更 patients.
目的 To determine 電腦 feasibility and 定位 of 60 治療 fractions with 三分 image-guided robotic 侷 radiosurgery for 轉移 liver metastases.Materials 與 Method: Between 與 to 2011, 回溯 total of 年 patients with 開刀 limited numbers 限肝 liver metastases 於 Cyberknife image-guided 中心 stereotactic radiosurgery 接受 our center. 立體 time ranged 線 5-25 months 蹤 17 mo.). 範 patients had ～ solitary lesion 中位 3 had 月 multiple lesions 為 than 3 另 the maximum 腫瘤 diameter ranged 顆 1.5 cm. 直徑 5 cm. 原發 tumor sites 為 rectal cancer 胰臟癌 lung Cancer 範圍 pancreatic cancer 歲 renal cell 以 (n=1), bladder 次 (n=1). The 為 ranged from 刀 years old. 放射 patients were 處方劑 with 60 ～ delivered in 劑量 fractions given 治療 other day. 月 value range 腹部 75-80% of 或 prescribed dose.Results: 檢查 follow-up CT-scan 病患 the abdomen 完整 3 months 病患 Cyberknife image-guided 部分 stereotactic radiosurgery 月 complete response 以 attained in 斷層 patients and 掃描 response in 例 patients. Six 取得 after the 緩解 all patients 嚴重 a complete 僅有 response. Only 急性 patient shown 胃炎 1 acute 為 and gastrointestinal 存活率 No severe ～ was attributed 中位數 the therapy. [ l-and 2-year 無 survival rate 範圍 71.4% and 個 respectively. Median 個 was 17 ] (6-26 months) 研究 CI 6.75-27.26], 刀 median progression-free 放射 was 9 以 (5-26 months) 次 CI 1.3-16.7].Conclusion: 無法 image-guided robotic 侷 radiosurgery in 是 Gy/3 fractions 有效 limited liver 可以 is feasible 的 effective. Excellent 控制 control can 嚴重 achieved with 我們 toxicity. While 建立 data established 方法 safety of 但 treatment, more 嚴格 clinical studies 研究 needed to 評估長 evaluate long 可能 efficacy and toxicity results.
Purpose: 目的 determine the 電腦 and efficacy 定位 60 Gy/3 治療 with Cyberknife 三分 robotic stereotactic 侷 for limited 轉移 metastases.Materials and 與 Between 2009 與 2011, a 回溯 of 7 年 with inoperable, 開刀 numbers of 限肝 metastases underwent 於 image-guided robotic 中心 radiosurgery at 接受 center. Follow-up 立體 ranged from 線 months (median: 蹤 mo.). Four 範 had a ～ lesion and 中位 had small 月 lesions (Iess 為 3 nodules), 另 maximum tumor 腫瘤 ranged from 顆 cm. to 直徑 cm. Primary 原發 sites were 為 cancer (n=2), 胰臟癌 Cancer (n=2), 範圍 cancer (n=1), 歲 cell cancer 以 bladder cancer 次 The ages 為 from 60-87 刀 old. The 放射 were treated 處方劑 60 Gy ～ in 3 劑量 given every 治療 day. Isodose 月 range from 腹部 of the 或 dose.Results: A 檢查 CT-scan of 病患 abdomen done 完整 months after 病患 image-guided robotic 部分 radiosurgery showed 月 response was 以 in 3 斷層 and partial 掃描 in 4 例 Six months 取得 the treatment 緩解 patients achieved 嚴重 complete tumor 僅有 Only 1 急性 shown grade 胃炎 acute liver 為 gastrointestinal toxicity. 存活率 severe complication ～ attributed to 中位數 therapy. The [ 2-year overall 無 rate was 範圍 and 42.8%, 個 Median survival 個 17 months ] months) [95% 研究 6.75-27.26], and 刀 progression-free survival 放射 9 months 以 months) [95% 次 1.3-16.7].Conclusion: Cyberknife 無法 robotic stereotactic 侷 in 60 是 fractions for 有效 liver metastases 可以 feasible and 的 Excellent local 控制 can be 嚴重 with minimal 我們 While our 建立 established the 方法 of this 但 more rigorous 嚴格 studies are 研究 to fully 評估長 long term 可能 and toxicity results.
目的 In recent 於 the dose 造成 caused by 在 Henschke applicator 內 a major 為 in brachytherapy 計算時 system (BPS). 含金 investigate impact 於 the dose 程度 there is 將針 lack of 於 shielding, Monte 的 simulations, and 比較 calculations have 及 performed for 計量 assessments in 結果 Plastic Water® 方法 and Methods 包含 A Henschke 一根 consists of 管子 tandem and 中 ovoids. In 將被 study, an 管 Ir source 中 be driven 停留 all three 於 of a 各自 applicator, at 第三 middle of 於 ovoid, and 半球 the center 點的 two ovoids. 近接 BPS, the 及 of the 的 was set 位置 the middle 體往 two ovoids, 的 was the 六個點 Carlo simulation. 劑量 dose normalization 的 was the 研究 dose at 演算法 arbitrary points 分布 to the 而此 of the 錄面 by 5 劑量 Monte Carlo 資料 Transport Code 卡羅 (X-5 Monte 設定 Team) was 事先 in this 美國 to simulate 學會 dose distribution 所公 output simulation 參數 was recorded 結果 mesh tally. 卡羅 Monte Carlo 近接 parameters had 劑量 validated by 明顯 data in 無 previous report.Results: 的 isodose distribution 曲線 Henschke applicator 經 without Henschke 曲線 showed tremendous 較 between Monte 管明顯 simulation and 曲線 calculation. This 若 that a 被 applicator affected 計算 isodose distribution 治療 Compared to 曲線 prescription dose 往座標 the simulation 至 curves had 蒙地 shrinkage of 結論 0.5 cm, 造成 the metal 擾動 was considered.Conclusions: 但此 Henschke applicator 以蒙地 the dose 劑量 significantly and 而 could be 計畫 in Monte 呈 simulation, but 造成 in BPS.
Introduction: 目的 recent years, 於 dose perturbation 造成 by the 在 applicator is 內 major concern 為 brachytherapy planning 計算時 (BPS). To 含金 impact of 於 dose where 程度 is a 將針 of metal 於 Monte Carlo 的 and BPS 比較 have been 及 for dose 計量 in a 結果 Water® phantom.Material 方法 Methods : 包含 Henschke applicator 一根 of one 管子 and two 中 In this 將被 an 192 管 source would 中 driven into 停留 three channels 於 a Henschke 各自 at the 第三 of each 於 and at 半球 center of 點的 ovoids. For 近接 the origin 及 the coordinates 的 set at 位置 middle of 體往 ovoids, as 的 the Monte 六個點 simulation. The 劑量 normalization point 的 the average 研究 at six 演算法 points extended 分布 the surface 而此 the ovoids 錄面 5 mm. 劑量 Carlo N-Particle 資料 Code MCNP 卡羅 Monte Carlo 設定 was used 事先 this study 美國 simulate the 學會 distribution and 所公 simulation data 參數 recorded by 結果 tally. The 卡羅 Carlo set-up 近接 had been 劑量 by TG-43 明顯 in a 無 report.Results: The 的 distribution with 曲線 applicator and 經 Henschke applicator 曲線 tremendous deviation 較 Monte Carlo 管明顯 and BPS 曲線 This indicated 若 a Henschke 被 affected the 計算 distribution significantly. 治療 to the 曲線 dose area, 往座標 simulation isodose 至 had a 蒙地 of about 結論 cm, when 造成 metal applicator 擾動 considered.Conclusions: The 但此 applicator affected 以蒙地 dose distribution 劑量 and this 而 be observed 計畫 Monte Carlo 呈 but not 造成 BPS.
單發性 fibrous tumor 非常 the pleura 胸腔 is an 手術 neoplasm. Surgery 是 the only 的 therapy and 性 a definitive 以及 Among these 病理 malignant SFTP 因為 reported having 數少 recurrent rate 界定 poor prognosis. 治療 of the 角色 incidence, the 惡性 of radiotherapy 纖維瘤 in the 復 of the 癒 has not 差 well defined. 報告 reported a 惡性 woman with 纖維瘤 SFTP in 在 right thorax, 腫瘤 has been 接受 free of 放射 for more 並有 2 years 兩年 surgery with 復 residual disease 之 adjuvant RT. 輔助 RT could 治療 an option 提供 treatment for 完整性 residual disease 之惡性 malignant SFTP 纖維瘤 major surgery.
Solitary 單發性 tumor of 非常 pleura (SFTP) 胸腔 an uncommon 手術 Surgery is 是 only curative 的 and provides 性 definitive diagnosis. 以及 these patients, 病理 SFTP was 因為 having high 數少 rate and 界定 prognosis. Because 治療 the rare 角色 the role 惡性 radiotherapy (RT) 纖維瘤 the management 復 the disease 癒 not been 差 defined. We 報告 a 50-year-old 惡性 with malignant 纖維瘤 in the 在 thorax, which 腫瘤 been living 接受 of disease 放射 more than 並有 years after 兩年 with microscopic 復 disease and 之 RT. Adjuvant 輔助 could be 治療 option of 提供 for microscopically 完整性 disease of 之惡性 SFTP following 纖維瘤 surgery.
腦幹 treatment of 的 cavernoma includes 神經 and stereotactic 和 (SRS). We 放射 two cases 兩位 brainstem cavernoma 血管瘤 with linear 接受 (LlNAC) cone-based 儀立體 radiosurgery.CASE 1: 手術 44 year-old 歲 patient survived 腦幹 brainstem cavernoma 合 bleeding into 橋腦 pons. She 發病 her neurological 她 gradually in 復 Another growing 功能 at left 影像 was noted 橋腦 magnetic resonance 的 (MRI) of 病患 It was 加速器 with cone-based 放射 radiosurgery. The 室 radiation dose 於 14 Gy 手術 two fractions. 發現 new neurological 神經 was noted 追 radiosurgery. On 腦 regular follow-up 振 brain MRI, 左側 cavernoma over 海綿狀 pons remitted 小 and no 治療 edema related 水腫 radiosurgery was 二 2: A 的 year-old male 病史 with history 眼眶 left orbital 於 status post 過 and radiation 及 in 1997 追 a 0.7 發 cavernoma at 側 ambient cistern 屋頂 the 4th 一個 roof. Cone-based 病患 radiosurgery was 加速器 The prescribed 放射 dose was 量 Gy in 治療 fractions. On 的 regular follow-up 磁 MRI the 發現 demonstrated very 表現 treatment response.
The 腦幹 of brainstem 的 includes neurosurgery 神經 stereotactic radiosurgery 和 We reported 放射 cases with 兩位 cavernoma treated 血管瘤 linear accelerator 接受 cone-based stereotactic 儀立體 1: A 手術 year-old female 歲 survived from 腦幹 cavernoma with 合 into right 橋腦 She recovered 發病 neurological function 她 in months. 復 growing cavernoma 功能 left pons 影像 noted by 橋腦 resonance imaging 的 of brain. 病患 was treated 加速器 cone-based stereotactic 放射 The prescribed 室 dose was 於 Gy in 手術 fractions. No 發現 neurological deficit 神經 noted after 追 On the 腦 follow-up of 振 MRI, the 左側 over left 海綿狀 remitted gradually, 小 no cerebral 治療 related to 水腫 was observed.CASE 二 A 43 的 male patient 病史 history of 眼眶 orbital cavernoma 於 post operation 過 radiation therapy 及 1997 had 追 0.7 cm 發 at left 側 cistern of 屋頂 4th ventricle 一個 Cone-based stereotactic 病患 was performed. 加速器 prescribed radiation 放射 was 18 量 in two 治療 On the 的 follow-up brain 磁 the cavernoma 發現 very good 表現 response.
目的 The aim 研究 this study 比 to compare 性全 lung volume/dose 與 breast cancer 手術 receiving adjuvant 乳癌 after modified 輔助性 mastectomy or 之 conservative surgery.Materials 體積 Method: Between 材料 2009 and 方法 2010, we 月 116 breast 月 patients who 了 referred to 本科 department for 輔助性 radiotherapy. Seventy-seven 的 breast conservative 其中 and 39 乳房 modified radical 位 We used 性全 treatment planning 切除 to estimate 治療 irradiated lung 去 at different 不同 levels and 肺部 discover if 接受 surgical methods 體積 any other 會受 affected irradiated 或 For statistics, 所影響 used two 分別 t-test and 執行 analysis of 與 to perform 統計 univariate and 單變項 analyses, respectively.Results: 分析 results from 乳房 univariate analysis 早期 that patients 治療 breast conservative 上鎖 with earlier 病患 or without 計學上 coverage had 較 significantly lower 平均 percentage of 照射 lung volume 病灶 to patients 在 modified radical 量 with advanced 平均 or with 照射 coverage. Left 影響 lesion was 一步 borderline factor 統計 predicting the 腫瘤 mean percentages 是 lung volumes 而 higher dose 側與 In the 照野 analysis; however, 各劑 stage was 的 a significant 是 On the 預測 hand, lesion 手術 and supraclavicular 於 were statistically 量 factors for 肺部 volumes, and 有 methods affected 結論 volumes at 顯示 higher doses.Conclusion: 助性 with breast 時 surgery appear 保存 have a 之 irradiated lung 比 compared to 之病態 with modified 較 mastectomy when 肺部 adjuvant radiation ／ indicated.
Purpose: 目的 aim of 研究 study is 比 compare irradiated 性全 volume/dose for 與 cancer patients 手術 adjuvant radiotherapy 乳癌 modified radical 輔助性 or breast 之 surgery.Materials & 體積 Between July 材料 and October 方法 we collected 月 breast cancer 月 who were 了 to our 本科 for adjuvant 輔助性 Seventy-seven received 的 conservative surgery 其中 39 received 乳房 radical mastectomy. 位 used a 性全 planning system 切除 estimate the 治療 lung volume 去 different dose 不同 and to 肺部 if different 接受 methods or 體積 other factors 會受 irradiated volume. 或 statistics, we 所影響 two sample 分別 and one-way 執行 of variance 與 perform the 統計 and multivariate 單變項 respectively.Results: The 分析 from the 乳房 analysis showed 早期 patients receiving 治療 conservative surgery, 上鎖 earlier stage, 病患 without suprac1avicular 計學上 had a 較 lower mean 平均 of irradiated 照射 volume compared 病灶 patients receiving 在 radical mastectomy, 量 advanced stage, 平均 with supraclavicular 照射 Left side 影響 was a 一步 factor in 統計 the higher 腫瘤 percentages of 是 volumes at 而 dose levels. 側與 the multivariate 照野 however, the 各劑 was not 的 significant factor. 是 the other 預測 lesion side 手術 supraclavicular coverage 於 statistically significant 量 for lung 肺部 and surgical 有 affected lung 結論 at the 顯示 doses.Conclusion: Patients 助性 breast conservative 時 appear to 保存 a lower 之 lung volume/dose 比 to patients 之病態 modified radical 較 when post-operative 肺部 radiation is ／
目的 In this 此 we evaluated 我們 clinical outcomes 表現 glioblastoma multilorme 治療 patients with 影響 prognostic factors.Materials 膠芽 Method: From 的 2001 through 後 2008, we 方法 114 consecutive 月 with histologically 月 GBM in 位 single institution. 醫院 patients received 為 resection followed 膠芽 radiotherapy (RT) 病人 or without 病人 use, while 腫瘤 received tumor 或 alone. Clinical 多數 image findings, 接受 modalities, and 放射 survival (OS) 併 these patients 之臨 reviewed and 特徵 Thirty-live patients 與 treated with 都 or subtotal 與 resection followed 共 RT with 接受 and adjuvant 切除 55 treated 切除 tumor resection 放射 adjuvant RT, 併 24 treated 輔助 resection alone. 病人 a median 切除 time of 放射 months (ranging 位 0.3 to 接受 .8 months), 在 median OS 追 all the 間 was 12.5 後 and the 至 and two-year 病人 rates were 位數 and 17.5%, 時間 Patients receiving 月 tumor resection 及 RT and 整體 had a 為 median OS 手術 those without 後 used (19.4 併 10.1 months, 病人 = 0.01). 腫瘤 univariate analysis, 後 Karnofsky performance 的 (KPS) (≤ 較 P = 中 multiple neurologic 存活 (p = 為 multiple brain 月 or corpus 分析 invasion (p 能表現 0.003) , ≤ resection (p 神經學 0.001) , 多發 RT (p 胼胝 0.001) , 腫瘤 no temozolomide 未 = 0.001) 治療 significant prognostic 未 for predicting 預測 OS of 存活 patients. In 重要 analysis, multiple 在 deficits (p 分析 0.008), multiple 神經學 lesions or 多發 callosum invasion 胼胝 = 0.007), 腫瘤 resection (p 未 0.005), no 治療 (p ＜ 或 and no 仍為 (p = 整體 remained independent 的 prognostic factors 因子 OS 01 的 patients.Conclusion: Our 顯示 indicated that 障礙 neurologic deficits, 尤其 findings of 多發 callosum invasion 胼胝 multiple brain 以及 and single 治療 treatment were 整體 factors for 的 poor prognosis.
Purpose: 目的 this study, 此 evaluated the 我們 outcomes of 表現 multilorme (GBM) 治療 with their 影響 factors.Materials and 膠芽 From March 的 through October 後 we evaluated 方法 consecutive patients 月 histologically confirmed 月 in a 位 institution. Most 醫院 received tumor 為 followed by 膠芽 (RT) with 病人 without temozolomide 病人 while some 腫瘤 tumor resection 或 Clinical characteristics, 多數 findings, treatment 接受 and overall 放射 (OS) of 併 patients were 之臨 and analyzed.Results: 特徵 patients were 與 with total 都 subtotal tumor 與 followed by 共 with concurrent 接受 adjuvant temozolomide, 切除 treated with 切除 resection and 放射 RT, and 併 treated with 輔助 alone. At 病人 median follow-up 切除 of 40.6 放射 (ranging from 位 to 61 接受 months), the 在 OS for 追 the patients 間 12.5 months, 後 the one-year 至 two-year OS 病人 were 50% 位數 17.5%, respectively. 時間 receiving combined 月 resection with 及 and temozolomide 整體 a better 為 OS than 手術 without temozolomide 後 (19.4 vs. 併 months, p 病人 0.01). In 腫瘤 analysis, poor 後 performance status 的 (≤ 70, 較 = 0.036), 中 neurologic deficits 存活 = 0.044), 為 brain lesions 月 corpus callosum 分析 (p = 能表現 , subtotal ≤ (p = 神經學 , no 多發 (p ＜ 胼胝 , and 腫瘤 temozolomide (p 未 0.001) were 治療 prognostic factors 未 predicting poor 預測 of these 存活 In multivariate 重要 multiple neurologic 在 (p = 分析 multiple brain 神經學 or corpus 多發 invasion (p 胼胝 0.007), subtotal 腫瘤 (p = 未 no RT 治療 ＜ 0.001), 或 no temozolomide 仍為 = 0.007) 整體 independent worse 的 factors for 因子 01 these 的 Our results 顯示 that multiple 障礙 deficits, image 尤其 of corpus 多發 invasion or 胼胝 brain lesions, 以及 single modality 治療 were important 整體 for predicting 的 prognosis.
目的 To compare 主要 body radiotherapy 針對 with three-dimensional 比較 radiotherapy (3D-CRT) 放射 improving hepatocellullar 三度 (HCC) patient 治療 rates.Material and 材料 Forty-one patients 位無法 unresectable or 復 HCC were 肝癌 into one 位 of 20 定位 who received 另 and another 病人 of 21 空間 who received 治療 They were 月 in the 期間 Oncology Department 三 the Tri-Service 放射 Hospital from 接受 2007 to 追 2009. The 間 follow-up time 數 all patients 月 12 months 到 2 to 整體 months). Overall 研究 was the 結果 end point.Results: 空間 the 3D-CRT 治療 SBRT patient 立體 the median 治療 (MS) was 病患 months and 中位 months with 個 1-year overall 個 (OS) of 一年 and 70.0%, 分別 In the 在 analysis, CyberKnife 接受 (p= 0.019), 放射 Okuda stage 較 0.002), serum 白蛋白 higher than 及黃疸 /dl (p= 低者 and total 的 lower than 且 mg/dL (p= 統計 were associated 顯著 significantly better 分期 Further statistical 存活率 showed that 達 patients in 上 class A 差異 received SBRT 分析 better OS 病人 those who 放射 3D-CRT (p= 接受 Multivariate analyses 順形 that Okuda 有 (p= 0.006). 整體 class (p= 多 and technique 較 RT (p= 分期 were significant 立體 factors for 治療 This study 具影 that patients 預 received SBRT 從本 significantly better 了解 than those 定位 received 3D-CRT. 比 has the 空間 of short 治療 treatment times 整體 to 3D-CRT. 的 results also 建議 that SBRT 病人 be considered 慮 in patients 定位 Child-Pugh class 有 Further study 整體 required to 可進 the effects 放射 administered radiation 及 and fractionation.
Purpose: 目的 compare stereotactic 主要 radiotherapy (SBRT) 針對 three-dimensional conformal 比較 (3D-CRT) for 放射 hepatocellullar carcimona 三度 patient survival 治療 and Method: 材料 patients with 位無法 or recurrent 復 were divided 肝癌 one group 位 20 patients 定位 received SBRT, 另 another group 病人 21 patients 空間 received 3D-CRT. 治療 were treated 月 the Radiation 期間 Department of 三 Tri-Service General 放射 from March 接受 to March 追 The median 間 time for 數 patients was 月 months (range 到 to 36 整體 Overall survival 研究 the primary 結果 point.Results: For 空間 3D-CRT and 治療 patient groups, 立體 median survival 治療 was 11 病患 and 16 中位 with the 個 overall survival 個 of 42.9% 一年 70.0%, respectively. 分別 the univariate 在 CyberKnife SBRT 接受 0.019), non-advanced 放射 stage (p= 較 serum albumin 白蛋白 than 3.5g 及黃疸 (p= 0.008), 低者 total bilirubin 的 than 2.0 且 (p= 0.042) 統計 associated with 顯著 better OS. 分期 statistical analyses 存活率 that those 達 in Child-Pugh 上 A who 差異 SBRT had 分析 OS than 病人 who received 放射 (p= 0.047). 接受 analyses revealed 順形 Okuda stage 有 0.006). Child-Pugh 整體 (p= 0.042) 多 technique of 較 (p= 0.029) 分期 significant prognostic 立體 for OS.Conclusions: 治療 study showed 具影 patients who 預 SBRT had 從本 better OS 了解 those who 定位 3D-CRT. SBRT 比 the advantage 空間 short overall 治療 times compared 整體 3D-CRT. Our 的 also suggest 建議 SBRT could 病人 considered first 慮 patients with 定位 class A. 有 study is 整體 to define 可進 effects of 放射 radiation dose 及 fractionation.
目的 To evaluate 現頭 treatment of 上皮 or metachronous 口咽 / laryngeal 下咽 oropharyngeal head 伴 neck cancer 時 cancer) and 異時 cancer in 的 institution.Materials and 近十年 The retrospective 之 included patients 材料 synchronous or 方法 H&N and 研究 cancer treated 至 our institution 同時 1998 to 異時 A synchronous 的 was defined 咽喉 a second 下咽 diagnosed within 食道癌 months after 病人 initial diagnosis 的 cancer. A 兩種 malignancy was 發生 as a 在 malignancy diagnosed 月 than 6 異時 after the 的 diagnosis of 癌症 For the 的 of esophageal 間 11 patients 於 surgery with 月 without neoadjuvant 食道 chemo-radiotherapy (CCRT), 的 the other 位 patients received 最終 radiotherapy with 接受 without concurrent 其餘 For the 病人 of H&N 接受 15 patients 化 surgical intervention 頭頸癌 or without 方面 CCRT, and 個 other 18 手術 received definitive 其餘 Our study 只有 33 patients. 放化療 these patients, 位 presented with 收錄 H&N and 研究 cancer, and 罹患 patients developed 發生 carcinomas. The 癌症 age at 人有 diagnosis was 的 years (range: 在 years). The 研究 follow-up time 追 living patients 時 41 .3 的 For the 位 group, the 個 overall survival 所有 (OS) and 存活 survival time 無 were 13.6 存活 9.3 months, 的 Univariate analysis 數分別 that T 個 of esophageal 在 (T1/T2 vs. 分析 was a 於 prognostic factor 時間 OS and 無 (22.5 vs.12.2 存活 [p=0.041], and 良好 vs. 8.5 因子 [p = 早期 respectively). In 食道 case of 的 or metachronous 切除 cancer, surgical 預 was associated 有 a better 佳 than radiotherapy, 趨勢 borderline significance 或 = 0.076).Conclusions: 發生 with synchronous 口 metachronous H&N 咽喉 esophageal cancer 癌及 poor outcomes. 常伴 with T1/T2 不好 cancer had 結果 better chance 時 survival than 早期 with T3/T4 食道 cancer. This 隨著 implies that 的 T stage 後 esophageal cancer 治療 a prognosis-limiting 腫瘤 Routine screening 病人 synchronous or 無 esophageal cancer 時間 facilitate early 有 and thereby 佳 the outcomes.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 現頭 of synchronous 上皮 metachronous hypopharyngeal 口咽 laryngeal / 下咽 head and 伴 cancer (H&N 時 and esophageal 異時 in our 的 and Method: 近十年 retrospective study 之 patients with 材料 or metachronous 方法 and esophageal 研究 treated at 至 institution from 同時 to 2008. 異時 synchronous malignancy 的 defined as 咽喉 second malignancy 下咽 within 6 食道癌 after the 病人 diagnosis of 的 A metachronous 兩種 was defined 發生 a second 在 diagnosed more 月 6 months 異時 the initial 的 of cancer. 癌症 the treatment 的 esophageal cancer, 間 patients underwent 於 with or 月 neoadjuvant concurrent 食道 (CCRT), and 的 other 22 位 received definitive 最終 with or 接受 concurrent chemotherapy. 其餘 the treatment 病人 H&N cancer, 接受 patients underwent 化 intervention with 頭頸癌 without adjuvant 方面 and the 個 18 patients 手術 definitive CCRT.Result: 其餘 study included 只有 patients. Among 放化療 patients, 10 位 with synchronous 收錄 and esophageal 研究 and 23 罹患 developed metachronous 發生 The median 癌症 at primary 人有 was 56.8 的 (range: 40.7-79.6 在 The median 研究 time for 追 patients was 時 .3 months. 的 the entire 位 the median 個 survival time 所有 and disease-free 存活 time (DFS) 無 13.6 and 存活 months, respectively. 的 analysis revealed 數分別 T stage 個 esophageal cancer 在 vs. T3/T4) 分析 a significant 於 factor for 時間 and DFS 無 vs.12.2 months 存活 and 21.3 良好 8.5 months 因子 = 0.020], 早期 In the 食道 of synchronous 的 metachronous esophageal 切除 surgical intervention 預 associated with 有 better outcome 佳 radiotherapy, with 趨勢 significance (p 或 0.076).Conclusions: Patients 發生 synchronous or 口 H&N and 咽喉 cancer had 癌及 outcomes. Those 常伴 T1/T2 esophageal 不好 had a 結果 chance for 時 than those 早期 T3/T4 esophageal 食道 This result 隨著 that the 的 stage of 後 cancer is 治療 prognosis-limiting factor. 腫瘤 screening for 病人 or metachronous 無 cancer may 時間 early detection 有 thereby improve 佳 outcomes.
目的 The goal 研究 this study 在 to investigate 不同 accuracy of 設定 with different 治療 parameters in 影響 Dosimetric comparisons 能 various gantry 不同 with and 治療 couch (WC/WOC) 分別 simulation were 旋轉 based on 間 and Method: 是否 VMAT cases 床衰減 selected in 治療 study, including 差異 abdomen/pelvis, 6 與 HN, 8 例 HN and 病患 prostate. A 例 Elekta Synergy 骨盆 accelerator and 頸部 algorithm in 及 9.0 was 使用 The patients 及 treated clinically 程式 VMAT using 及 gantry spacing 以旋 reoptimized using 間 4° and 度 An 8 計算 thick water 每組 contour couch 加上 added under 密度 phantom. The 的 was irradiated 床 0.125 cm^3 假體 chamber and 擺放 EBT2 film 及 99.1% and 於 of WC 治療 WOC passed 考量 3% point 無 difference criteria. 差異 absolute dosimetric 量 of EBT2 之 the gamma 為 rate of 絕對 mm for 分 224 plans 的 were 5.4% 通過 WC and 於 for WOC 分別 95% tolerance 針對 While using 參數 parameters (3° 角度 spacing, WC), 度 3%/3 mm 床衰減 average passing 雙側 was 98.3±2.3%, 頭頸部 97.6±2.8% and 的 for abdomen/pelvis, 通過 HN, two-side 為 and prostate 顯示 Considered with 角度 2-6° gantry 之 the Kruskal-Wallis 結果 test shows 異且 similar results 案例 failures situations 在 randomly on 間 gantry spacing. 顯示 results 01 之 /without couch 在 simulation shows 無 Mann-Whitney U 之 p-value lower 或 or close 水準 the significant 指出 expected for 可能 cases. Spearman's 治療 coefficient indicates 但 delivery MU 則無相 inlluence the 利用 (p-value ＜ 弧形 but it's 之 of PTV 評估 Composite dose 可行 performed with 研究 film are 雖然 practicable approach 計算 patient-specific QA 治療 VMAT plans. 不 dosimetry in 整體 study has 其劑 good agreement 與 various parameter 一致性
Purpose: 目的 goal of 研究 study was 在 investigate the 不同 of VMAT 設定 different calculation 治療 in SmartArc. 影響 comparisons of 能 gantry spacings 不同 and without 治療 (WC/WOC) insert 分別 were evaluated 旋轉 on statistics.Materials 間 Method: Twenty-eight 是否 cases were 床衰減 in this 治療 including 8 差異 6 one-side 與 8 two-side 例 and 6 病患 A commercial 例 Synergy linear 骨盆 and SmartArc 頸部 in Pinnacle^3 及 was used. 使用 patients were 及 clinically with 程式 using 3° 及 spacing and 以旋 using 2°, 間 and 6°. 度 8 mm 計算 water equivalent 每組 couch was 加上 under the 密度 The phantom 的 irradiated with 床 cm^3 Semiflex 假體 and Gafchromic 擺放 film simultaneously.Results: 及 and 94.6% 於 WC and 治療 passed the 考量 point dose 無 criteria. In 差異 dosimetric agreement 量 EBT2 film, 之 gamma passing 為 of 3%/3 絕對 for all 分 plans separately 的 5.4% for 通過 and 11.6% 於 WOC below 分別 tolerance level. 針對 using clinical 參數 (3° gantry 角度 WC), the 度 mm gamma 床衰減 passing rate 雙側 98.3±2.3%, 99.5±0.5%, 頭頸部 and 99.5±0.5% 的 abdomen/pelvis, one-side 通過 two-side HN 為 prostate respectively 顯示 with the 角度 gantry spacing, 之 Kruskal-Wallis H 結果 shows very 異且 results and 案例 situations occurred 在 on any 間 spacing. The 顯示 01 with 之 couch insert 在 shows the 無 U test 之 lower than 或 close to, 水準 significant level 指出 for prostate 可能 Spearman's correlation 治療 indicates that 但 MU may 則無相 the accuracy 利用 ＜ 0.05) 弧形 it's independent 之 PTV volume.Conclusions: 評估 dose measurements 可行 with EBT2 研究 are a 雖然 approach for 計算 QA of 治療 plans. Film 不 in this 整體 has shown 其劑 agreement in 與 parameter settings.
目的 To study 分析 neck-shoulder bag 夾角 improve the 過程 accuracy among 之 and neck 肩頸 patients during 墊 therapy (RT) 擺位 analyzing the 確性 spine curvature 材料 and Method: 方法 March 2008 月 March 2009, 年 consecutive head 名 neck cancer 強度 received RT 治療 immobilization by 頸癌 mask and 頸 These 66 治療 were divided 分為 two groups. 距離 A (n 三公 37) were 使用 with a 墊 to couch 組 distance (NCD) 距離 3 cm, 三公 at the 使用 just caudal 墊 the hollow-pillow, 組 the γ 回顧 not use 年 NSS for 月 support Group 病患 (n = 照組 were those 小 NCD equal 分為 or larger 組 3 cm, 大 all of 三公 used NSB 名 RT. Another 未 of 31 固定 treated in 於 year 2007, 使用 using the 塑性 was used 椎 the retrospective 之 group. Among 頸椎 31 cases, 為 have NCD 椎 3 cm 投影 A') and 頸 cases were 節後緣 cm (Group 之 Patient's cervical 軟體 curvature was 位 by his/her 影像 and fifth 第一次 vertebrae intersecting 之 (cervical spine 影像 CSA). It 拍 measured weekly 規照 patient's portal 和 and simulation 影像 A small 頸 between the 角度 CSA indicated 病患 setup accuracy. 變化 weight change, 是否 prior to 切除 NCD, and 治療 using a 距離 or not 使用 investigated correlating 墊 CSA. Analyses 使用 performed using 係 Pearson correlation 進行 and SPSS17 本 independent univariate 結果 test.Results: A 分析 of 582 影像 images were 和 Patients with 床間 ＜ 3 於 and not 之 the NSB 變異 a CSA 度 difference of 組為 for Group 而 and 1.03±3.48° 於 Group A' 且 = 0.484). 固定 with NCD 之 cm, CSA 為 variation for 而 B was 之 and was 組為 for Group 統計 (p = 病患 Surgery prior 治療 RT significantly 手術會 the CSA 頸 of difference 變異 = 0.0436). 而 weight change 變化 little to 頸 correlation with 變異間 variation (r 相關性 0.01 to 本 Our results 結果 using NSS 於 patients with 和 ≥3 cm 距離 reduced CSA 於 among RT 病患 thus improved 肩頸 accuracy. Patients 可 NCD ＜ 頸椎 cm had 提升 setup accuracy 擺位 the absence of NSB.
Purpose: 目的 study how 分析 bag (NSB) 夾角 the setup 過程 among head 之 neck cancer 肩頸 during radiation 墊 (RT) by 擺位 the cervical 確性 curvature difference.Meterials 材料 Method: Between 方法 2008 and 月 2009, sixty-six 年 head and 名 cancer patients 強度 RT with 治療 by thermoplastic 頸癌 and hollow-pillow. 頸 66 patients 治療 divided into 分為 groups. Group 距離 (n = 三公 were those 使用 a neck 墊 couch perpendicular 組 (NCD) ＜ 距離 cm, measuring 三公 the point 使用 caudal to 墊 hollow-pillow, and 組 γ did 回顧 use the 年 for neck 月 Group S 病患 = 29) 照組 those with 小 equal to 分為 larger than 組 cm, and 大 of them 三公 NSB during 名 Another cohort 未 31 cases 固定 in the 於 2007, not 使用 the NSB 塑性 used as 椎 retrospective control 之 Among these 頸椎 cases, fifteen 為 NCD ＜ 椎 cm (Group 投影 and sixteen 頸 were 3 節後緣 (Group B'). 之 cervical spine 軟體 was quantified 位 his/her second 影像 fifth cervical 第一次 intersecting angle 之 spine angle, 影像 It was 拍 weekly from 規照 portal images 和 simulation films. 影像 small difference 頸 the weekly 角度 indicated good 病患 accuracy. Body 變化 change, surgery 是否 to RT, 切除 and whether 治療 a NSB 距離 not were 使用 correlating to 墊 Analyses were 使用 using the 係 correlation coefficient 進行 SPSS17 for 本 univariate t 結果 A total 分析 582 portal 影像 were obtained. 和 with NCD 床間 3 cm 於 not using 之 NSB have 變異 CSA weekly 度 of 0.67±2.58° 組為 Group A, 而 1.03±3.48° for 於 A' (p 且 0.484). Those 固定 NCD ≥3 之 CSA weekly 為 for Group 而 was 0.41±0.66°, 之 was 1.52±3.63° 組為 Group B', 統計 = 0.046). 病患 prior to 治療 significantly increased 手術會 CSA range 頸 difference (p 變異 0.0436). Body 而 change had 變化 to no 頸 with CSA 變異間 (r range: 相關性 to -0.21).Conclusions: 本 results indicated 結果 NSS in 於 with NCD 和 cm significantly 距離 CSA variation 於 RT fractionations, 病患 improved setup 肩頸 Patients with 可 ＜ 3 頸椎 had acceptable 提升 accuracy in 擺位 absence of NSB.
未 thyroid cancer 為 is a 高度 malignancy with 目前 behavior and 最 outcome; the 策略 treatment has 文獻中 yet been 減積 Debulky surgery 後 by adjuvant 於 (RT) has 分化 reported to 提供 better local 控制 for locally 治療 ATC. However, 限制 technical limitations 之 conventional RT 時 it difficult 有效 irradiate a 之 and effective 佈 to the 著 region. Recent 之 in RT 由 such as 治療 radiotherapy (IMRT) 傳統 the potential 而 conquer the 調控 Additionally, IMRT 若 simultaneous integrated 加量 technique (SIB-IMRT) 提供 improved the 劑量 and dosimetric 生物 As no 文獻中 literature has 技術 the use 晚期 this technique 在 locally advanced 患有 we report 歲 60-year-old female 行腫瘤 ATC treated 輔以 debulky surgery 強度 SIB-IMRT and 之 the literatures.
Anaplastic 未 cancer (ATC) 為 a rare 高度 with aggressive 目前 and dismal 最 the optimal 策略 has not 文獻中 been determined. 減積 surgery followed 後 adjuvant radiotherapy 於 has been 分化 to have 提供 local control 控制 locally advanced 治療 However, the 限制 limitations of 之 RT made 時 difficult to 有效 a homogenous 之 effective dose 佈 the thyroid 著 Recent advances 之 RT techniques 由 as intensity-modulated 治療 (IMRT) provided 傳統 potential to 而 the limitation. 調控 IMRT using 若 integrated boost 加量 (SIB-IMRT) further 提供 the biologic 劑量 dosimetric advantages. 生物 no previous 文獻中 has reported 技術 use of 晚期 technique on 在 advanced ATC, 患有 report a 歲 female with 行腫瘤 treated by 輔以 surgery and 強度 and review 之 literatures.
一位 23-year-old man 男性 with left 因 and periorbital 同步化 4 years 治療 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 發生 his nasopharyngeal 腫脹 MRI revealed 臉下 15 cm 造影 in left 左半邊 Craniofacial resection 一 the tumor 腫瘤 performed and 後 a high-grade 證質 The tumor 骨肉瘤 were negative 雜交 Epstein-Barr virus 腫瘤 by EBV-encoded 為 RNA in 放療 hybridization. Radiation-induced 區域 should be 需 in a 引發 irradiated patient 可能 with relatively 小 latent period.
A 一位 man presented 男性 left ptosis 因 periorbital swelling 同步化 years after 治療 chemoradiotherapy for 發生 nasopharyngeal carcinoma. 腫脹 revealed a 臉下 cm tumor 造影 left hemiface. 左半邊 resection 01 一 tumor was 腫瘤 and showed 後 high-grade osteosarcoma. 證質 tumor cells 骨肉瘤 negative for 雜交 virus (EBV) 腫瘤 EBV-encoded small 為 in situ 放療 Radiation-induced sarcoma 區域 be considered 需 a previously 引發 patient even 可能 relatively short 小 period.
: The aim : the present : was to ( the incidence ( complete tumor ) (CR) achieved ) two different ) modalities and . importance of . surgery after : treatment. Materials : Method: Between : 1999 and ( 2007, this ( retrospective study ) 417 patients ) newly-diagnosed dissemination-naive ) cancer, treated ( pre-operative short-course ( (RT) or ) chemoradiotherapy (CCRT). ) status of ) response was . by biopsy . surgery. Result: . follow-up was . months. After . treatment, CR : documented in : of 221 . (2%) in . short-course RT . and 34 ( 198 (17%) ( the long-course ) group (p ) 0.001). The ) overall survival ( was 59% ( short-course RT ) and 49% ) long-course CCRT ) respectively. Focusing ( the subgroup ( was documented ＜ achieve pathological ＜ complete response ＜ the survival ) was most ) in those . received major . after neoadjuvant . rather than . excision only. . were more ( receiving merely ( excision or ( in CCRT ) (n= 50, ) than in . alone group . 7, 3%). . the subgroup ( specific to ( patients who ) standard major ) after neoadjuvant ) no statistically ( difference in ( of overall ) was found ) these two ) neoadjuvant settings . 0.657). Conclusions: . analysis pertaining ( patients who ( received major ( after neoadjuvant ) showed that ) was no . difference with . to overall . rates in : two neoadjuvant : The importance . patient compliance . performing major . after neoadjuvant . was clearly . in this retrospective study.
Purpose: : aim of : present study : to evaluate ( incidence of ( tumor response ) achieved following ) different neoadjuvant ) and the . of major . after neoadjuvant : Materials and : Between March : and December ( this is ( study included ) patients with ) dissemination-naive rectal ) treated with ( short-course radiotherapy ( or long-course ) (CCRT). The ) of tumor ) was confirmed . biopsy or . Result: Median . was 30.9 . After neoadjuvant . CR was : in 5 : 221 patients . in the . RT group, . 34 of ( (17%) in ( long-course CCRT ) (p ＜ ) The 5-year ) survival rate ( 59% in ( RT group ) 49% in ) CCRT group ) Focusing on ( subgroup that ( documented to ＜ pathological tumor ＜ response (pCR), ＜ survival benefit ) most clear ) those who . major surgery . neoadjuvant treatment . than local . only. There . more patients ( merely local ( or observation ( CCRT group ) 50, 25.5%) ) in RT . group (n= . 3%). In . subgroup analysis ( to the ( who underwent ) major surgery ) neoadjuvant treatment, ) statistically significant ( in terms ( overall survival ) found between ) two different ) settings (p= . Conclusions: Subgroup . pertaining to ( who actually ( major surgery ( neoadjuvant treatment ) that there ) no significant . with regard . overall survival . in these : neoadjuvant settings. : importance of . compliance and . major surgery . neoadjuvant treatment . clearly demonstrated . this retrospective study.
: The aims : this study ( assessing the ( status and ) of life ) in the . with hepatocellular . treated by : and discussing : impacts of . and nutritional . on QoL. ( and Methods: ( August 2007 ) April 2009, ) hundred and ( hepatocellular carcinoma ( treated by ) at a ) hospital in : Taiwan were : in this . Nutritional status . QoL of : patients were : by means . the Mini-Nutrition . (MNA) and ( Organization for ( and Treatment ^ Cancer Quality ^ Life Core-3D ) QLQ-C30) at ) different time . before treatment, . of treatment, . 1 month . treatment.  ( Forty-two percent ＜ had the ＜ of nutritional ) before radiotherapy. ) was no ( changes in ( status of ＜ patient s ＜ received radiotheray ) X^2 = ) p = ( The nutritional ( correlated with ＜ health status, ＜ five functioning ) and the ) of symptom ( /item at ( of the ＜ time points. ＜ generalized estimating ) global health ) (p ＜ ( global functioning ( (p ＜ ＜ the most ＜ symptoms included ) (p ＜ ) financial difficulty . ＜ 0.001 . and pain ( p ＜ ( were significantly ＜ after radiotherapy. ＜ nutritional status ) f the ) were strong ( with global ( status (p ＜ 0.001), global ) status (p ) 0.001), insomnia ( ＜ 0.01), ( (p ＜ ＜ financial difficulty ＜ ＜ 0.001), ) of appetite ) ＜ 0.001) ( pain (p ( 0.01). Conclusion: ＜ the level ＜ f nutritional ) of the ) is not ( increase in ( short period, ＜ would be ＜ to note ) the QoL ) the most ( the major ( are significantly ＜ after the ＜ s received ) Considering, the ) status of ( patients will ( influence their ＜ and the ＜ symptoms. The ) with hepatocellular ) should have . establish nutritional . and arrange : nutritional intervention : radiotherapy to . more nutritional . and in . to improve . QoL.
Purpose: : aims of : study are ( the nutritional ( and quality ) life (QoL) ) the patients . hepatocellular carcinoma . by radiotherapy, : discussing the : of radiotherapy . nutritional status . QoL. Materails ( Methods: From ( 2007 to ) 2009, one ) and fifty ( carcinoma patients ( by radiotherapy ) a teaching ) in central : were enrolled : this study. . status and . of the : were assessed : means of . Mini-Nutrition Assessment . and European ( for Research ( Treatment of ^ Quality of ^ Core-3D (EORTC ) at three ) time points: . treatment, end . treatment, and . month after .  Results: ( percent patients ＜ the problem ＜ nutritional status ) radiotherapy. There ) no significant ( in nutritional ( of the ＜ s who ＜ radiotheray (Friedman ) = 2.06, ) = 0.358). ( nutritional status ( with global ＜ status, all ＜ functioning scales ) the most ) symptom scales ( at all ( the different ＜ points. Using ＜ estimating equation, ) health status ) ＜ 0.01), ( functioning status ( ＜ 0.05), ＜ most severe ＜ included fatigue ) ＜ 0.05), ) difficulty (p . 0.001 ), . pain ( ( ＜ 0.01) ( significantly improved ＜ radiotherapy. The ＜ status o ) the patients ) strong relationship ( global health ( (p ＜ ＜ global functioning ) (p ＜ ) insomnia (p ( 0.01), fatigue ( ＜ 0.001), ＜ difficulty (p ＜ 0.001), loss ) appetite (p ) 0.001) and ( (p ＜ ( Conclusion: Although ＜ level o ＜ nutritional status ) the patients ) not effectively ( in a ( period, it ＜ be worth ＜ note that ) QoL and ) most of ( major symptoms ( significantly improved ＜ the patient ＜ received radiotherapy. ) the nutritional ) of the ( will directly ( their QoL ＜ the major ＜ The patients ) hepatocellular carcinoma ) have to . nutritional assessment . arrange early : intervention before : to get . nutritional support, . in turn . improve the .
目的 Glioblastoma multilorme 性膠 is the 是 malignant primary 成年人 tumor in 原發性 Here we 在 our institution 中 of treatment 了 in Taiwan 性膠 patients and 的 the prognostic 分析 Materials and 材料 From Apri1 自 to August 至 30 patients 在 GBM received 有 excision and 腫瘤 with/without chemotherapy 放射 our institution. 接受 patients were 或 (53%), and 的 were female 狀母 The median 其中 was 61 為 The performances 例為 of Karnofsky 中位 Sca1e was 在 in 19 狀態 (63%), and 量表 in 11 於 (37%). The 小 size of 例 was 5.0 中位 All patients 所有 definitive or 在術後均 adjuvant radiotherapy 治療 chemotherapy. The 治療 total radiation 放射 was 5940 中位 Thirteen patients 有 received chemotherapy. 接受 chemotherapy regimens 化療 ACNU, BCNU 包括 Temozolomide. The 蹤 period ranged 間 1.2 to 個 months (median, 數為 months) Results: ) patients (27%) 治療 tumor response 有 treatments, 19 有 (63%) had 反應 of disease, 的 3 patients 呈現 had stable 而 The median 則為 duration was 狀態 months. Five 中位 (17%) were 個 and 25 最 (83%) were 追 at the 有 101l0w-up. The 存活 overall surviva1 病人 49%, and 的 2-year overall 為 was 17%. 整體 status was 為 statistically significant 狀態 for overall 重要 (p= 0.008, 後 test; p= 儘 Cox proportiona1 治療 model). Conclusion: 性膠 recent therapeutic 的 the prognosis 不佳 GBM remains 不佳 Poor response 局部 current therapies 仍 loco-regional recurrence 多型 were the 細胞瘤 failure patterns 因素 GBM. A 要 series of 有效 patients with 以期 follow-up and 結果 effective treatments 後 warranted.
Purpose: 目的 multilorme (GBM) 性膠 the most 是 primary brain 成年人 in adults, 原發性 we presented 在 institution experience 中 treatment resu1ts 了 Taiwan GBM 性膠 and analyzed 的 prognostic factors. 分析 and Methods: 材料 Apri1 1998 自 August 2010, 至 patients with 在 received tumor 有 and radiotherapy 腫瘤 chemotherapy in 放射 institution. Sixteen 接受 were ma1e 或 and 14 的 female (47%). 狀母 median age 其中 61 years. 為 performances status 例為 Karnofsky Performance 中位 was ≥70 在 19 patients 狀態 and ＜70 量表 11 patients 於 The median 小 of tumor 例 5.0 cm. 中位 patients had 所有 or post-operative 在術後均 radiotherapy with/without 治療 The median 治療 radiation dose 放射 5940 cGy. 中位 patients (43%) 有 chemotherapy. The 接受 regimens included 化療 BCNU and 包括 The follow-up 蹤 ranged from 間 to 49.3 個 (median, 10.4 數為 Results: Eight ) (27%) had 治療 response after 有 19 patients 有 had progression 反應 disease, and 的 patients (10%) 呈現 stable disease. 而 median survival 則為 was 10.4 狀態 Five patients 中位 were alive 個 25 patients 最 were dead 追 the 1ast 有 The 1-year 存活 surviva1 was 病人 and the 的 overall survival 為 17%. Performance 整體 was a 為 significant factor 狀態 overall surviva1 重要 0.008, log-rank 後 p= 0.025, 儘 proportiona1 hazards 治療 Conclusion: Despite 性膠 therapeutic advances, 的 prognosis of 不佳 remains poor. 不佳 response to 局部 therapies and 仍 recurrence still 多型 the main 細胞瘤 patterns for 因素 A large 要 of more 有效 with longer 以期 and more 結果 treatments is 後
目的 To investigate 局部 outcome of 腫瘤 brachytherapy (ILBT) 高劑 Iridium 192 率 for hepatobiliary 治療 with biliary 治療 obstruction. Materials 與 Methods: The 自 data of 至 patients with 有 malignancies (clinical 惡性 as Tl-4, 病患 MO) were 期別 from March ～ to March 高劑 AII of 近接 had biliary 病患 caused by 佈 cancers. The 歲 at the 其中 diagnosis ranged 歲 46 to ～ years with 接受 median of 量 years. AII 銥 received three 近接 five fractions 平均 high dose-rate 量 ILBT (twice . day, for . to three 病患 with mean 近接 01 14 接受 (9-17.5 Gy, 放射 Gy/fraction, b.i.d.) 量 6 of 至 also received 放射 beam radiotherapy 為 with mean 診斷 of 44 之 (40-64.8 Gy, 蹤 Gy/fraction/day). The 中 follow-up time 為 initial diagnosis ～ 10 months 月 months). Results: 線 mean value 總膽 pre-RT total 平均 was 9.66 ; (1.05-29.22 mg/dL) 治療 that of 紅素 was 1.73 為 (0.27-4.23 mg/dL). 肝外 median survival 病患 was 19 中位 for three 個 with extra-hepatic 肝內 9 months 病患 three patients 存活 intra-hepatic cholangiocarcinoma, 個 months for 壺腹 patients with 之 of Vater 中位 and 5 月 for those 病態 hepatocellular carcinoma. 中位 only single 個 with gall 膽囊 cancer survived 之 months. Conclusion: 個 intraluminal brachytherapy 局部 a feasible 腫瘤 option to 高劑 biliary tract 率 and improve 治療 drainage for 解除 with hepatobiliary 疸
Purpose: 目的 investigate the 局部 of intraluminal 腫瘤 (ILBT) using 高劑 192 (Ir-192) 率 hepatobiliary cancers 治療 biliary tract 治療 Materials and 與 The clinical 自 of eleven 至 with hepatobiliary 有 (clinical stage 惡性 Tl-4, NO-1, 病患 were collected 期別 March 2007 ～ March 2011. 高劑 of them 近接 biliary obstruction 病患 by hepatobiliary 佈 The age 歲 the initial 其中 ranged from 歲 to 79 ～ with a 接受 of 68 量 AII patients 銥 three to 近接 fractions of 平均 dose-rate Ir-192 量 (twice a . for two . three days) 病患 mean dose 近接 14 Gy 接受 Gy, 3.13 放射 b.i.d.) and 量 of them 至 received external 放射 radiotherapy (EBRT) 為 mean dose 診斷 44 Gy 之 Gy, 2 蹤 The median 中 time from 為 diagnosis was ～ months (1-28 月 Results: The 線 value of 總膽 total bilirubin 平均 9.66 mg/dL ; mg/dL) and 治療 of post-RT 紅素 1.73 mg/dL 為 mg/dL). The 肝外 survival time 病患 19 months 中位 three patients 個 extra-hepatic cholangiocarcinoma, 肝內 months for 病患 patients with 存活 cholangiocarcinoma, 22 個 for two 壺腹 with ampulla 之 Vater cancer 中位 5 months 月 those with 病態 carcinoma. The 中位 single patient 個 gall bladder 膽囊 survived 15 之 Conclusion: Ir-192 個 brachytherapy is 局部 feasible treatment 腫瘤 to relieve 高劑 tract obstruction 率 improve bile 治療 for patients 解除 hepatobiliary cancers.
: The aim : this study ( to compare ) parameters of ) (Tomo) and ( conformal radiotherapy ) CRT) for ) irradiation (CSI). ( & Methods: ) patients requiring ) treatments were . All patients & adult males & treated in : supine position. . tomography (CT) . with 10mm . thickness were ( for both ) 3D CRT ) Tomo plans. . prescribed dosage ( the planning ( volume (PTV) ) 32 Gy. . homogeneity index . conformal index ( and physical ) were used ) compare the ( between the ) treatment modalities. . The V95% . of receiving : least 95% ( prescribed dose) ( planning target ) (PTV-B) was ( for six ( The mean ) of planning . volume-spine (PTV-S) . 98.7% and ( for 3D ) and Tomo ) respectively. The . Dmax (maximal ( of PTV-B ) higher on ) CRT than ( Tomo (37.4 . vs. 33.6 . The mean ) of PTV-S . 3D CRT . much higher ( that on . (50.8 Gy/159% . 33 Gy/103%). ) mean DHI . PTV-B showed . differences between ( (1.17) and ) (1 .05), ( 0.009. The ( distribution of . planned by ) was more ) than that . by 3D ( (mean DHI ( vs. 1.59, . 0.0047). There ) no significant ) in the . CI of ( on CRT ( and Tomo ) p＞ 0.05. ( mean CI ) PTV-S of ) was better ＞ that of . CRT (0.47 . 0.2, p＜ ( There were . in all . of organs ＜ risk (OARs) ) the Tomo ) except for . kidneys (Tomo ( 3D CRT: ( Gy vs. ) Gy). Conclusion: ( is simpler . linear accelerator . CSI because : is no . between treatment . The dosimetric ) of DHI . CI are . in the : group. Decreased . dose via . may be . for minimizing . long-term latent effect.
Purpose: : aim of : study is ( compare dosimetric ) of TomoTherapy ) and 3D ( radiotherapy (3D ) for craniospinal ) (CSI). Materials ( Methods: Three ) requiring CSI ) were enrolled. . patients were & males and & in the : position. Computed . (CT) scans . 10mm slice . were acquired ( both the ) CRT and ) plans. The . dosage of ( planning target ( (PTV) was ) Gy. Dose . index (DHI), . index (CI), ( physical parameters ) used to ) the differences ( the two ) modalities. Results: . V95% (volume . receiving at : 95% of ( dose) of ( target volume-brain ) was 100% ( six plans. ( mean V95% ) planning target . (PTV-S) were . and 100% ( 3D CRT ) Tomo plans, ) The mean . (maximal dose) ( PTV-B was ) on 3D ) than on ( (37.4 Gy/117% . 33.6 Gy/105%). . mean Dmax ) PTV-S on . CRT was . higher than ( on Tomo . Gy/159% vs. . Gy/103%). The ) DHI of . showed significant . between CRT ( and Tomo ) .05), p= ( The dose ( of PTV-S . by Tomo ) more homogenous ) that planned . 3D CRT ( DHI 1.03 ( 1.59, p= . There were ) significant differences ) the mean . of PTV-B ( CRT (0.76) ( Tomo (0.74), ) 0.05. The ( CI of ) of Tomo ) better than ＞ of 3D . (0.47 vs. . p＜ 0.05). ( were decreases . all Dmax . organs at ＜ (OARs) in ) Tomo group ) for bilateral . (Tomo vs. ( CRT: 14.8 ( vs. 3.8 ) Conclusion: Tomo ( simpler than . accelerator for . because there : no junction . treatment fields. . dosimetric parameters ) DHI and . are superior . the Tomo : Decreased OAR . via Tomo . be helpful . minimizing the . latent effect.
目的 Volumetric modulated 放射 therapy (VMAT) 目前 a relatively 新 technology of 透過 therapy. The 了解 of this 治療 is to 強控 VMAT with 在 field intensity 上 radiotherapy (IMRT) 效率 term s 差異 plan quality, 證評 efficiency, and 放射 assess the 之準 distribution by 與 verification of 床上 accuracy of 進行 Materials and 放射 Ten clinical 動態 of head 計畫 neck cancer 放射 evaluated in ^ study. IMRT 之 were developed 參數 direct machine 九個 optimization in 弧形 Pinnacle^3 V9.0 使用 planning system, 兩個 plans were 射束 using Smart 以 in the 治療 V9.0. ITMRT 基準 VMAT plans 使用 delivered using 量驗 AXESSE. Treatment 公司 quality assurance 之 VMAT was 與驗證 using the 分析 cc01 ion 分布 and Gafchromic 放射 film system. 強度 The PTV 在 is no 中計畫 difference between 並無明 and IMRT. 於 tissue sparing 放射 improved using 較 as compared 動態 IMRT. The 治療 of VMAT 平均 point average 面劑 and average 平均 was 2.43% 結論 and 97.38% 本 Dicussion and 了解 VMAT treatment 治療 can be 計畫 accurately based 以及 dose verification. 確性 has the 放射 to significantly 治療 56% treatment 同時 and 20% 之花費 unit compared 調控 IMRT, with 平均 sacrifice in 輸出 of plan.
Purpose: 目的 modulated arc 放射 (VMAT) is 目前 relatively new 新 of radiation 透過 The objective 了解 this study 治療 to compare 強控 with fixed 在 intensity modulated 上 (IMRT) in 效率 s of 差異 quality, delivery 證評 and to 放射 the dose 之準 by dose 與 of the 床上 of VMAT. 進行 and Methods: 放射 clinical cases 動態 head and 計畫 cancer were 放射 in this ^ IMRT plans 之 developed using 參數 machine parameter 九個 in the 弧形 V9.0 treatment 使用 system, VMAT 兩個 were generated 射束 Smart Arc 以 the Pinnacle^3 治療 ITMRT and 基準 plans were 使用 using Elekta 量驗 Treatment plan 公司 assurance for 之 was performed 與驗證 the Wellhofer 分析 ion chamber 分布 Gafchromic EBT2 放射 system. Results: 強度 PTV V95 在 no significant 中計畫 between VMAT 並無明 IMRT. Normal 於 sparing was 放射 using VMAT 較 compared with 動態 The verification 治療 VMAT dose 平均 average error 面劑 average gamma 平均 2.43% (1.6%-3.2%) 結論 97.38% (96.7%-98.2%). 本 and Conclusion: 了解 treatment plans 治療 be delivered 計畫 based on 以及 verification. VMAT 確性 the potential 放射 significantly reduce 治療 treatment time 同時 20% monitor 之花費 compared with 調控 with no 平均 in quality 輸出 plan.
目的 To study 黃 sensitizing effect 對 berberine on 線 cytotoxicity in 人類 liver cancer 細胞 Materials and 是否 Berberine, an 增敏 alkaloid, was 與 in combination 本 radiotherapy to 使用 a human 細胞株 cancer cell 以 Hep3B. The 線 were irradiated 線合 the indicated 黃 dose of 於 with or 死亡 berberine (10μM) 影響 cell viability 細胞 analyzed on 存活 5-diphenyl- tetrazolium 細胞 assay. DAPI(4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole)staining 濃染 used to 數目 the apoptosis 定量 acridine orange 的 used to 分析 presence of 凋亡 organelles formation. 蛋白 morphology of 結果 cells was 線 under fluorescence 誘導 and apoptosis 凋亡 quantified by 放射 cytometry. The 相關 of apoptosis-related 單獨 such as 線 c, cleaved 合 Bax, p-JNK, 的 and Akt 線及 analyzed on 蓮素 blot. Results: 組細胞 induced apoptotic 顯示 death of 凋亡 cells in 比例 dose-dependent manner. 至 ratio of 細胞 cells increased 相關 15.3% in 如 treated with 量 alone to 地 in Hep3B 凋亡 treated with 如 in combination 表 berberine. Western 降低 analysis demonstrated 結果 expressions of 黃 proteins, such 能 cytochrome c, 線毒 p-JNK, and 細胞 caspase-3, and 效果 expressions of 調控 Akt and 推測 Conclusion: Berberine 透過 radiation-induced cytotoxicity 與 Hep3B cells 訊息 likely by 這 of JNK 有待 suppression of 實驗
Purpose: 目的 study the 黃 effect of 對 on radiation-induced 線 in human 人類 cancer cells. 細胞 and Methods: 是否 an isoquinoline 增敏 was used 與 combination with 本 to treat 使用 human liver 細胞株 cell line, 以 The cells 線 irradiated with 線合 indicated single 黃 of 10Gy 於 or without 死亡 (10μM) and 影響 viability was 細胞 on MTT(3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 存活 tetrazolium bromide) 細胞 DAPI(4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole)staining was 濃染 to detect 數目 apoptosis and 定量 orange was 的 to detect 分析 of acidic 凋亡 formation. The 蛋白 of the 結果 was observed 線 fluorescence microscope 誘導 apoptosis was 凋亡 by flow 放射 The expressions 相關 apoptosis-related proteins 單獨 as cytochrome 線 cleaved caspase-3, 合 p-JNK, Bcl-2 的 Akt were 線及 on Western 蓮素 Results: Radiation 組細胞 apoptotic cell 顯示 of Hep3B 凋亡 in a 比例 manner. The 至 of apoptotic 細胞 increased from 相關 in Hep3B 如 with irradiation 量 to 47.2% 地 Hep3B cells 凋亡 with irradiation 如 combination with 表 Western blot 降低 demonstrated increased 結果 of apoptosis-related 黃 such as 能 c, Bax, 線毒 and cleaved 細胞 and decreased 效果 of phosphorylated 調控 and Bcl-2. 推測 Berberine enhances 透過 cytotoxicity in 與 cells most 訊息 by activation 這 JNK and 有待 of Akt.
目的 Multiple treatment 科 of one 資料 oncology department 存檔 an integrated 若要 to assure 的 effectiveness of 需要 information communication. 整合 patient centered 於 data-base was 同時 to improve 治療 quality of 多科 treatment. We 統合性 to create 資料 system to 可以 these necessities. 資訊 and Methods: 治療 previous intranet 我們 system was 整合性 was modified. 符合 set up 與 database to 分院 radiation oncology 的 information at 資訊系統 and another 及 to restore 還有 notes from 在 oncology in 統上 hospital’s previous 治療 system. All 評估 items from 在 completion notes 台灣 the Taiwan 資料 Database to 需資料 data collection. 治療 the images 此外 the planning 系統 were transformed 圖 DICOM and 數位 on to 協定 Results: Physicians 結果 in a 患者 treatment comprehend 可以 evaluation, treatment 系統 and final 了解 of radiotherapy 進行 above systems. 評估 systems provide 以及 relative information 況 the Taiwan 也 Database collection. 登記 addition, detailed 資料 from radiation 也 can be 上述 to the 自己 through the 的 on PACS. 細節 The connection 結論 radiation electronic 放射 data system, 電子 and PACS 可以 integrated information 整合性 cancer patient 不僅僅 The information 之間 the communication 討論 only between 與 but also 的 physician and patient.
Purpose: 目的 treatment sites 科 one radiation 資料 department need 存檔 integrated system 若要 assure the 的 of patient 需要 communication. A 整合 centered union 於 was needed 同時 improve the 治療 of multimodality 多科 We tried 統合性 create a 資料 to meet 可以 necessities. Materials 資訊 Methods: The 治療 intranet information 我們 was system 整合性 modified. We 符合 up a 與 to restore 分院 oncology completion 的 at HIS, 資訊系統 another data-base 及 restore initial 還有 from radiation 在 in the 統上 previous summarized 治療 All the 評估 from radiation 在 notes followed 台灣 Taiwan Cancer 資料 to facilitate 需資料 collection. Also, 治療 images from 此外 planning system 系統 transformed to 圖 and sent 數位 to PACS. 協定 Physicians involved 結果 a patient’s 患者 comprehend the 可以 treatment planning, 系統 final treatment 了解 radiotherapy via 進行 systems. The 評估 provide sufficient 以及 information for 況 Taiwan Cancer 也 collection. In 登記 detailed information 資料 radiation therapy 也 be revealed 上述 the patient 自己 the images 的 PACS. Conclusion: 細節 connection of 結論 electronic management 放射 system, HIS, 電子 PACS provide 可以 information on 整合性 patient treatment. 不僅僅 information facilitates 之間 communication not 討論 between physicians, 與 also between 的 and patient.
: Brain metastases : commonly in . with lung ( The aim ( this study ) to evaluate . outcome and . factors of : brain radiotherapy . for lung ( patients with ( metastases.Patients and ) We retrospectively . the medical . of 386 : cancer patients . brain metastases . received WBRT : January 2001 . December 2008. . end-point was . survival (OS). ( potential prognostic ) were studied: ) gender, histology, . status, number ＜ brain metastases, ＜ therapy of ( cancer, dose ＜ and presence ) extracranial metastases.Results: ) patient was ( to follow-up. ＜ patients died ＜ disease and ) patients were ( OS ranged ( 2 weeks ) 40 months ( 4.7 months). ) the univariate ) better survival . observed in ＜ ＜ 65 ＜ old (p＜0.0001), ( gender (p＜0.0001), ＜ performance status ＜ 0.0201) and ) of extracranial ( (p= 0.0226). ＜ the multivariate ＜ age ＜ ) years old ( female gender ( good performance ) (p= 0.014), ( of extracranial ( (p＜0.001) and ＜ of prior ) of lung ( (p= 0.003) ( favorable factors.Conclusion: ) survival outcome . lung cancer . with brain : after WBRT . poor. Age . 65 years ＜ female gender, . performance status, [ of extracranial [ and absence ; prior therapy ( lung caner ( favorable prognostic ) Radiol Oncol : 18(4): 265-273]
Purpose: : metastases occur : in patients . lung cancer. ( aim of ( study is ) evaluate survival . and prognostic . of whole : radiotherapy (WBRT) . lung cancer ( with brain ( and Methods: ) retrospectively reviewed . medical records . 386 lung : patients with . metastases who . WBRT between : 2001 and . 2008. The . was overall . (OS). Several ( prognostic factors ) studied: age, ) histology, performance . number of ＜ metastases, prior ＜ of lung ( dose schedule, ＜ presence of ) metastases.Results: No ) was lost ( follow-up. 374 ＜ died with ＜ and 12 ) were alive. ( ranged from ( weeks to ) months (median ( months). In ) univariate analysis, ) survival was . in age ＜ 65 years ＜ (p＜0.0001), female ( (p＜0.0001), good ＜ status (p= ＜ and absence ) extracranial metastases ( 0.0226). In ＜ multivariate analysis, ＜ ＜ 65 ) old (p＜0.001), ( gender (p＜0.001), ( performance status ) 0.014), absence ( extracranial metastases ( and absence ＜ prior therapy ) lung caner ( 0.003) were ( factors.Conclusion: The ) outcome for . cancer patients . brain metastasis : WBRT was . Age ＜ . years old, ＜ gender, good . status, absence [ extracranial metastases [ absence of ; therapy of ( caner were ( prognostic factors.[Therapeut ) Oncol 2011; : 265-273]
目的 To investigate 晚期 overall survival, 宮頸癌 control and 本院 control of 放射 with locally 的 squamous cell 預 of the 材料 treated with 年 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT). 年 analyze the 位 factors affecting 為 outcomes.Materials and 病患 We conducted 接受 retrospective analysis 學 106 patients 其中 FIGO stage 細胞癌 carcinoma of 為 cervix treated 性 CCRT between 對象 1999 and 計算 2008 in 分析 institution. Ninety-three － with squamous 變數 carcinoma (87.7%). 結果 estimations were 中位 using the 範圍 method. Univariate 至 was performed 時 the log-rank 位 Multivariate analysis 個 performed using 介 Cox proportional 月 model.Results: The 整體 age at 年 was 55 區域 (range: 34-86 轉移 The median 為 period was 發生 months (range: 發 months) respectively. 個 5-year overall 局部 (OS) rate 個 63.4%, and 遠處 local control 病患 and distant 局部 (DC) rates 的 61.3% and 單變數 respectively. Thirty-four 功能 93 patients 大小 were diagnosed 同步化 recurrence or 治療 metastasis at 抗原 follow-up time. 升高 patients (26.8%) 低下 distant failure, 淋巴 which 24 年 only distant 局部 one patient 和 both distant 控制率 loco-regional recurrence, 預 the remaining 在 patients recurred 分析 performance status, 功能 size, pelvic 學 pre-treatment hemoglobin 後 elevated serum 抗原 level after 升高 were significantly 整體 with 5-year 局部 LC and 是 by univariate 預 The ECOG 功能 status and 學 serum SCC 後 CCRT are 抗原 prognostic factors 與 5-year OS 於 LC rate. 於 performance status, 轉移 size (＞4 義的 and elevated 因子 SCC level 此 CCRT were 病患 for 5-year 狀態 rate by 同步化 analysis.Conclusions: The 治療 with poor 細胞癌 performance status, 升高 tumor (＞4cm) 大 elevated serum 預後較 after CCRT 於 worse outcome. 考慮 aggressive treatment 積極 be considered [ these patients.[Therapeut 與 Oncol 2011; ] 275-286]
Purpose: 目的 investigate the 晚期 survival, local 宮頸癌 and distant 本院 of patients 放射 locally advanced 的 cell carcinoma 預 the cervix 材料 with concurrent 年 (CCRT). We 年 the prognostic 位 affecting their 為 and Methods: 病患 conducted a 接受 analysis of 學 patients with 其中 stage III-IVa 細胞癌 of the 為 treated with 性 between January 對象 and December 計算 in our 分析 Ninety-three patients － squamous cell 變數 (87.7%). Survival 結果 were analyzed 中位 the Kaplan-Meier 範圍 Univariate analysis 至 performed using 時 log-rank test. 位 analysis was 個 using the 介 proportional hazards 月 The median 整體 at diagnosis 年 55 years 區域 34-86 years). 轉移 median follow-up 為 was 57.05 發生 (range: 4.57-137.3 發 respectively. The 個 overall survival 局部 rate was 個 and 5-year 遠處 control (LC) 病患 distant control 局部 rates of 的 and 57.0%, 單變數 Thirty-four of 功能 patients (36.6%) 大小 diagnosed with 同步化 or distant 治療 at the 抗原 time. Twenty-five 升高 (26.8%) had 低下 failure, of 淋巴 24 had 年 distant metastasis, 局部 patient had 和 distant and 控制率 recurrence, and 預 remaining 9 在 recurred locoregionally.ECOG 分析 status, tumor 功能 pelvic lymphadenopathy, 學 hemoglobin and 後 serum SCC 抗原 after CCRT 升高 significantly correlated 整體 5-year OS, 局部 and DC 是 univariate analysis. 預 ECOG performance 功能 and elevated 學 SCC after 後 are significant 抗原 factors for 與 OS and 於 rate. The 於 status, tumor 轉移 (＞4 cm) 義的 elevated serum 因子 level after 此 were significant 病患 5-year DC 狀態 by multivariate 同步化 The patient 治療 poor ECOG 細胞癌 status, bulky 升高 (＞4cm) and 大 serum SCC 預後較 CCRT had 於 outcome. More 考慮 treatment may 積極 considered for [ patients.[Therapeut Radiol 與 2011; 18(4): ]
: The aim : this study ' to understand ' level of ” perception toward ” hard and ” facilities of ” industry to ” discuss the ” between the ” service quality” ” the ”customer ” and its ” on the ' patient's satisfaction” ” the ”customer ” and hopefully ” improve the ” loyalty based ” the ”customer ” service to ” the highest ” of sustained ” for medical ” institutions.Material and . This study . on the : who have : the complete . at a . center in . Taiwan from . 1st 2010 . October 30th . Through structured . method, the : aged above : regardless of ; and education ; have filled ' questionnaires. A ' of 550 . were collected. ' on Pearson ' analysis, the . statistic was . Most of ( cancer patients ( satisfied with ) soft and ) facilities provided ; hospital; Cancer ; were also ( with the ( workers' professional ) and technical ) Further, 346 . were satisfied ( the hospital's ( of handling ) and 384 ) felt it . worth while . pay the : fees. As : result, 535 ' of the ' have expressed ' to go ' to the ( hospital; 539 ( (98%) have ＜ willingness to ) the hospital ) their families ' friends. 411 ' (74.7%) indicated ( they will ( choose other ＜ even if ＜ registration fee ) lower.Discussion: The ) workers' professional . and technical . are correlated ' the cancer . medical service . (p＜0.01) and ( also correlated ( the medical ＜ procedure and ＜ efficiency of ) patients' complaints ) The higher . medical service . is associated ' higher rate ' returning to . hospital. They . positively correlated ' The overall . from the . is positively ( with the ( willingness for ＜ The patients ＜ be more ) to recommend ) families and . to the . if they . higher satisfaction . the hospital's ( medical service. ( result is ＜ significant (p＜0.003). ) the cancer ) are satisfied . the overall . of the [ they initially [ they will ; choose other ; even if ( registration fee ( lower. The ) is very ) (p＜0.001).[Therapeut Radiol : 2011; 18(4): ]
Purpose: : aim of : study is ' understand the ' of patient's ” toward both ” and soft ” of medical ” to further ” the relationship ” the ”medical ” quality” and ” ”customer value” ” its impact ” the ”cancer ' satisfaction” and ” ”customer value”, ” hopefully to ” the customer ” based on ” ”customer oriented” ” to achieve ” highest goal ” sustained management ” medical care ” and Method: . study targeted . the patients : have received : complete radiotherapy . a medical . in northern . from March . 2010 to . 30th 2010. . structured questionnaire . the patients : above 20 : of gender ; education degree ; filled the ' A total ' 550 questionnaires . collected. Based ' Pearson correlation ' the correlation . was conducted.Results: . of the ( patients were ( with the ) and hard ) provided by ; Cancer patients ; also satisfied ( the medical ( professional knowledge ) technical proficiency. ) 346 patients . satisfied with ( hospital's efficiency ( handling complaints ) 384 patients ) it is . while to . the medical : As a : 535 (97.3%) ' the patients ' expressed willingness ' go back ' the same ( 539 patients ( have shown ＜ to recommend ) hospital to ) families and ' 411 patients ' indicated that ( will not ( other hospital ＜ if the ＜ fee is ) The medical ) professional knowledge . technical proficiency . correlated with ' cancer patients' . service satisfaction . and are ( correlated with ( medical service ＜ and the ＜ of handling ) complaints (p＜0.01). ) higher patients' . service satisfaction . associated with ' rate of ' to the . They are . correlated (p＜0.003). ' overall service . the hospital . positively correlated ( the patients' ( for recommendation. ＜ patients will ＜ more willing ) recommend their ) and friends . the hospital . they receive . satisfaction with . hospital's overall ( service. The ( is very ＜ (p＜0.003). When ) cancer patients ) satisfied with . overall service . the hospital [ initially consulted, [ will not ; other hospital ; if the ( fee is ( The result ) very significant ) Radiol Oncol : 18(4): 287-297]
: The aims : this study : assessing the ( status and ( of life ) in the ) with hepatocellular ) and analyzing . predictors of . and Methods: : August 2007 : March 2009, . hundred outpatients . hepatocellular carcinoma . the Department ( Radiation Oncology, ( teaching hospital ) central Taiwan ) to participate ) this study. ( scores of ( Mini-Nutrition Assessment ) the European ) for Research . Treatment of . Quality of . Core-30 (EORTC : and the : of routine ( tests were ( to evaluate ( nutritional status ) QoL.Results: Almost ) of the . (45.7%) had . in nutritional ( The nutritional ( of the ( was significantly χ with the χ of liver ^ (χ^2 = ^ p ＜ ^ The levels ＜ global health ＜ were not ) but the ) of the . functioning status . still satisfied. . impact of . variables on . QoL, the ; of global ; status were ; assessment, general . assessment, diet . and AFP; : nutritional assessment, : assessment, self-nutritional . anthropometric assessment . AFP were . predictive factors . global functioning . The nutritional . is the . of global . in the [ with hepatocellular [ Nutritional screening ; assessment are ; for liver ( patients. In ( nutritional intervention ( support should ) beneficial to ) the QoL : those patients.[Therapeut : Oncol 2011; ] 299-310]
Purpose: : aims of : study are : the nutritional ( and quality ( life (QoL) ) the patients ) hepatocellular carcinoma, ) analyzing the . of QoL.Materials . Methods: From : 2007 to : 2009, three . outpatients with . carcinoma at . Department of ( Oncology, a ( hospital in ) Taiwan consented ) participate in ) study. The ( of the ( Assessment (MNA), ) European Organization ) Research and . of Cancer . of Life . (EORTC QLQ-C30), : the data : routine biochemical ( were collected ( evaluate the ( status and ) Almost half ) the patients . had problems . nutritional status. ( nutritional status ( the patients ( significantly related χ the grade χ liver cirrhosis ^ = 21.218, ^ ＜ 0.001). ^ levels of ＜ health status ＜ not well, ) the levels ) the global . status were . satisfied. Analyzing . of the . on the . the predictors ; global health ; were self-nutritional ; general nutritional . diet assessment . AFP; general : assessment, diet : self-nutritional assessment, . assessment and . were the . factors of . functioning status.Conclusion: . nutritional status . the predictor . global QoL . the patients [ hepatocellular carcinoma. [ screening and ; are necessary ; liver cancer ( In addition, ( intervention and ( should be ) to improve ) QoL for : patients.[Therapeut Radiol : 2011; 18(4): ]
目的 For the 宮頸癌 female pelvis 宮內膜 radiotherapy, contouring 後 volumes and 之骨 structures around 線 paravaginal area 調控 greatly due 評估 lack of 形式 of vaginal 顯影術 To aid 和 precise delineation 劑量 vaginal lumen, 分析 developed a 材料 vagina enhancement 方法 (VEM) and 歲子 its feasibility 或子 well as 癌術 impact.Materials and 病患 Postoperative computed 單獨 (CT) scan 內 with and 標記 VEM were 放置 for 5 及 with cervical 顯影術 endometrial carcinoma. 在 the plans 盆腔 VEM, cervical 線 markers and 計畫 jelly-based vaginal 影像 were applied 的 CT-simulations. The 評估 target volume 形式 of paravaginal 顯影術 below the 陰道 was then 組織 with a 為 margin around 以及 visible vaginal 放射 As for 結果 plans without 形式 we applied 顯影術 clip markers 有效 and the 使 CTV was 電腦 as the 影像 between bladder 更 rectum. The 清楚 of VEM 線 evaluated based 量分析 the visualization 新 The difference 陰道 vaginal volume 可 was also 減少 Dosimetric parameters 的 mean dose 體積 dose-volume histograms 和 compared between 膀胱 with and 平均 VEM.Result: We 也 that the 減少 lumen was 膀胱 illustrated on 劑量 with VEM. 百分比 RT plans 部分 VEM, dosimetric 受到 showed significant 的 in vagina 百分比 bladder V45, 顯著 bladder V45 降低 V50. The 新 dose of 陰道 and corresponding 在 which are 放射 influenced by 強度 contouring, also 治療 significant reduction 應用 VEM.Conclusion: The 清楚 vaginal enhancement 並在 is an 劑 guide to 上針 define the 膀胱 lumen in 陰道 female pelvis 的 with dosimetric [ particularly in 治療 and vagina.[Therapeut 腫瘤學 Oncol 2011; ] 311-319]
Purpose: 目的 the postoperative 宮頸癌 pelvis intensity-modulated 宮內膜 contouring target 後 and normal 之骨 around the 線 area varies 調控 due to 評估 of landmarks 形式 vaginal lumen. 顯影術 aid a 和 delineation for 劑量 lumen, we 分析 a novel 材料 enhancement modality 方法 and evaluated 歲子 feasibility as 或子 as dosimetric 癌術 and Methods: 病患 computed tomography 單獨 scan simulations 內 and without 標記 were taken 放置 5 patients 及 cervical or 顯影術 carcinoma. For 在 plans with 盆腔 cervical clip 線 and a 計畫 vaginal contrast 影像 applied before 的 The clinical 評估 volume (CTV) 形式 paravaginal area 顯影術 the parametrium 陰道 then delineated 組織 a 0.5-cm 為 around the 以及 vaginal lumen. 放射 for the 結果 without VEM, 形式 applied cervical 顯影術 markers only, 有效 the paravaginal 使 was delineated 電腦 the interspace 影像 bladder and 更 The feasibility 清楚 VEM was 線 based on 量分析 visualization rate. 新 difference of 陰道 volume contoured 可 also analyzed. 減少 parameters including 的 dose and 體積 histograms were 和 between plans 膀胱 and without 平均 We found 也 the vaginal 減少 was successfully 膀胱 on CT-simulations 劑量 VEM. In 百分比 plans with 部分 dosimetric analysis 受到 significant decrease 的 vagina volume, 百分比 V45, corresponding 顯著 V45 and 降低 The mean 新 of vagina 陰道 corresponding bladder, 在 are critically 放射 by paravaginal 強度 also showed 治療 reduction with 應用 The novel 清楚 enhancement modality 並在 an effective 劑 to clearly 上針 the vagina 膀胱 in postoperative 陰道 pelvis IMRT 的 dosimetric improvements [ in bladder 治療 vagina.[Therapeut Radiol 腫瘤學 2011; 18(4): ]
目的 RapidArc is 刀 latest VMAT 是 that treat 在 very quickly 同時 optimizing the 多 shape, radiation 準直儀 rate, and 照野內 rotation speed 量 a single 旋轉 radiotherapy. In 到 to reduce 調控 and groove 治療 and to 其中 the spatial 減少 of high 劑量 area, collimator 解析度 has become 角度 determining factor 治療 RapidArc optimization. 條件 study try 的 find the 之一 suitable collimator 研究 for RapidArc 找出 planning system 腺癌 patients with 之 cancer.Materials and 的 Fifteen prostate 儀旋轉 patients were 與 to re-optimize 本科 treatment plan 庫中 RapidArc. Five 攝護 collimator angles 分別 30°, 45°, 度 75°) were 度 while we 種 the plans. 準直儀 treatment plan 進行 using the 刀 optimization parameters, 所有 as dose 進行 and priority 治療 planned target 優化 and critical 對 The plan 治療 45 degree 各 collimator angle 使用 used as 劑量 basis of 器官 of the 以 dose(Dmax), homogeneity 結果 conformal index(CI)in 原廠 tumor and 最佳 dose received 角度 critical organs.Result: 以 use the 標準 of 45 直儀 of collimator 在 as the 劑 When collimator 勻性 15, 30, 形度 and 75 器官 there were 的 (3/15), 73.3% 以 53.3% (8/15) 標準 20% (3/15) 進行 of the 治療 lower than 準直 Dmax calculated 度 45 degree 度 When collimator 計算 15, 30, 劑 and 75 有 there were ／ (1/15), 46.7% 的 40% (6/15) 於 13.3% (2/15) 的 of results 量值 more homogeneous 度 than 45 度 And when ／ rotated 15, ／ 60 and 的 degrees, there 較 40% (6/15), 均 (9/15), 40% 在 and 13.3% 度 ratio of 度 results has ／ conformal distribution. 和 more, the 比例 which accepted 的 critical organs 形度 all under 危急 dose constraints.Conclusion: 接受 order to 都 the tongue 在 groove effect 限制 to improve 內 resolution of 執行 dose area, 放射 in the 時 process must 結果 rotated. The 直儀 of this 對 show that 的 30 degree 和 the collimator 不同 for prostate 角度 patients has 得到 result compared 的 another four 放射 angles.[Therapeut Radiol 腫瘤學 2011; 18(4): ]
Purpose: 目的 is the 刀 VMAT technique 是 treat patient 在 quickly by 同時 the MLC 多 radiation dose 準直儀 and gantry 照野內 speed in 量 single arc 旋轉 In addition 到 reduce tongue 調控 groove effect 治療 to raise 其中 spatial resolution 減少 high dose 劑量 collimator angle 解析度 become a 角度 factor for 治療 optimization. This 條件 try to 的 the most 之一 collimator angle 研究 RapidArc treatment 找出 system for 腺癌 with prostate 之 and Methods: 的 prostate cancer 儀旋轉 were selected 與 re-optimize the 本科 plan of 庫中 Five different 攝護 angles (15°, 分別 45°, 60°, 度 were used 度 we doing 種 plans. RapidArc 準直儀 plan optimization, 進行 the same 刀 parameters, such 所有 dose constraint 進行 priority for 治療 target volume 優化 critical organ. 對 plan of 治療 degree of 各 angle was 使用 as the 劑量 of comparison 器官 the maximum 以 homogeneity index(HI)and 結果 index(CI)in the 原廠 and the 最佳 received by 角度 organs.Result: To 以 the plan 標準 45 degree 直儀 collimator angle 在 the standard. 劑 collimator rotated 勻性 30, 60 形度 75 degrees, 器官 were 20% 的 73.3% (11/15), 以 (8/15) and 標準 (3/15) ratio 進行 the Dmax 治療 than the 準直 calculated by 度 degree respectively. 度 collimator rotated 計算 30, 60 劑 75 degrees, 有 were 6.7% ／ 46.7% (7/15), 的 (6/15) and 於 (2/15) ratio 的 results got 量值 homogeneous distribution 度 45 degree. 度 when collimator ／ 15, 30, ／ and 75 的 there were 較 (6/15), 60% 均 40% (6/15) 在 13.3% (2/15) 度 of the 度 has more ／ distribution. Further 和 the dose 比例 accepted by 的 organs were 形度 under the 危急 constraints.Conclusion: In 接受 to reduce 都 tongue and 在 effect and 限制 improve spatial 內 of high 執行 area, collimator 放射 the treatment 時 must be 結果 The results 直儀 this study 對 that the 的 degree of 和 collimator angle 不同 prostate cancer 角度 has better 得到 compared to 的 four different 放射 Radiol Oncol 腫瘤學 18(4): 321-330]
目的 Fast evaluation 快速 light/radiation field 輻射 beam flatness 光子 symmetry measurement 對 electronic portal 與 device.Material and 研究所 In this 影像 EPIs was 加速器 by Elekta 為 SLi linear 驗證 equipped with 拍 Elmer XRD 附 EPID. Images 轉存 exported by 的 GT software 檔案 16 bits 工程 Image File 版本 All images 程式 analyzed by 進行 2008b. Light/radiation 測量 coincidence was 的 under different 下 condition. Finally, 之 flatness and 光照 of different 吻合 energy and 分別 setting were 條件 According to 平坦 experiment results, 對 takes 0.414 根據 to analyze 實驗 EPIs with 影像 field coincidence, 垂直 flatness and 輻射 Each has 光子 and horizontal 與 respectively. All 性僅 the results 其內容 light/radiation field 輻射 and symmetry 與 could meet 稱性 standard of 全數 But the 在 flatness of 的 MV with 以 cm, 10 水平 and 15 照射 collimator settings 軸照 10 MV 資料 5 cm 大 setting exceeded 測量 tolerance level 規定 to larger 相較 of MLC.Conclusion: 測量 with other 裝置 the resolution 為 EPID is 算後約 It means 出 each pixel 變化 0.25 mm 測量 is suitable 檢測 small field 提高 The calculation 問題 fast enough 更 increase analysis 儀器 and any 等 could be 一步 as early [ possible.[Therapeut Radiol 與 2011; 18(4): ]
Purpose: 目的 evaluation of 快速 field coincidence, 輻射 flatness and 光子 measurement by 對 portal image 與 and Methods: 研究所 this study, 影像 was taken 加速器 Elekta precise 為 linear accerator 驗證 with Perkin 拍 XRD 1640 附 Images were 轉存 by iView 的 software as 檔案 bits Tagged 工程 File Format. 版本 images were 程式 by Matlab 進行 Light/radiation fields 測量 was calculated 的 different exposure 下 Finally, beam 之 and symmetry 光照 different photon 吻合 and collimator 分別 were analyzed.Results: 條件 to the 平坦 results, it 對 0.414 seconds 根據 analyze 10 實驗 with light/radiation 影像 coincidence, beam 垂直 and symmetry. 輻射 has vertical 光子 horizontal data 與 All of 性僅 results of 其內容 field coincidence 輻射 symmetry measurement 與 meet the 稱性 of tolerance. 全數 the horizontal 在 of 6 的 with 5 以 10 cm 水平 15 cm 照射 settings and 軸照 MV with 資料 cm collimator 大 exceeded the 測量 level due 規定 larger penumbra 相較 MLC.Conclusion: Compare 測量 other instruments, 裝置 resolution of 為 is 1024×1024. 算後約 means that 出 pixel represents 變化 mm that 測量 suitable for 檢測 field analysis. 提高 calculation is 問題 enough to 更 analysis frequency 儀器 any abnormality 等 be uncovered 一步 early as [ Radiol Oncol 與 18(4): 331-340]
鼻咽癌 carcinoma (NPC) 轉移常 pleural circulative 形成 is difficult 狀 treat due 鄰近 the cylinder 器官 and close 造成 organs. Helical 困難 (HT) is 刀 new type 一 CT-based rotational 影像 modulated radiotherapy 之 highly conformal 調控 distributions and 治療 organs sparing. 能 could be 形度 in this 治療 of difficult 危險 38-year-old male 閃避 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 功能 with pleural 螺旋 liver metastasis 可用 treated. Thirty-six 困難 was delivered 一位 bilateral pleural 鼻咽癌 mediastinum metastatic 因 with HT. 轉移 HT treatment, 強烈 was controlled 疼痛 narcotics successfully. 經導航 scale decreased 治療 10 to 腫瘤 Tumor volume 從 from 629 有效 to 158 神經 HT reduced 症狀 by more 指數 50% for 降至 lung and 肺部 the mean 產生 dose by 以緩 and 33.8% 治療 the right 目的 and left 螺旋 when compared 亦可 the IMRT 形狀 respectively.For palliative 腫瘤 HT provides 有效 ability for 安全 shaped metastatic 治療 and reduces 放射 sensation successfully.[Therapeut 與 Oncol 2011; ) 341-345]
Nasopharyngeal 鼻咽癌 (NPC) with 轉移常 circulative metastasis 形成 difficult to 狀 due to 鄰近 cylinder shape 器官 close critical 造成 Helical tomotherapy 困難 is a 刀 type of 一 rotational intensity 影像 radiotherapy with 之 conformal dose 調控 and critical 治療 sparing. HT 能 be helpful 形度 this kind 治療 difficult situation.A 危險 male Asian 閃避 carcinoma patient 功能 pleural and 螺旋 metastasis was 可用 Thirty-six Gy 困難 delivered to 一位 pleural and 鼻咽癌 metastatic sites 因 HT. After 轉移 treatment, pain 強烈 controlled by 疼痛 successfully. Pain 經導航 decreased from 治療 to 0. 腫瘤 volume decreased 從 629 ml 有效 158 ml. 神經 reduced V20 症狀 more than 指數 for each 降至 and reduced 肺部 mean lung 產生 by 22.2% 以緩 33.8% in 治療 right lung 目的 left lung 螺旋 compared with 亦可 IMRT technique, 形狀 palliative treatment, 腫瘤 provides impressive 有效 for irregularly 安全 metastatic sites 治療 reduces painful 放射 successfully.[Therapeut Radiol 與 2011; 18(4): )
目的 and Background: 一日 review if 或 radiotherapy provides 兩 tumor control 治療 standard radiotherapy 併 malignant glioma 治療 chemotherapy.Methods: The 於 of 48 膠質瘤 with glioblastoma 材料 or anaplastic 方法 treated with 於 radiotherapy were 化學 for survival 僅單 prognostic factors 接受 The radiation 治療 consisted of 膠質瘤 fractionation (1.8~2 進行 or hyperfractionated 性 (1.2~1.5 Gy 放射 with at 一日 6 hours 日 depending on 一日 preference of 兩次 physicians. None 其中 them received 接受 Eight patients 切片 biopsy only, 無 28 patients 位 subtotal resection. 局部 rest 12 而 had gross 完全 resection. Survival 存活率 were estimated 使用 the method 來計算 Kaplan and 相關 In univariate 單變項 of survival 採用 the different 多 were compared 則 the log 來 test. Within 結果 framework of 中位 regression models, 個 analysis was 位 to differentiate 達到 relationships between 反應 and their 反應 to the 的 No patient 是 lost to 反應 Median survival 惡化 13 months 兩次並 1-158 months). 較 patients had 的 response after 月數 Twenty-two had 個 response. The 在 24 had 項及 disease or 分析 The hyperfractionated 發現 group didn't 大 any benefit 為 survival (13 義的 16.733 months, 差 Age older 預 50 years 腫瘤 worse prognosis 超過 both univariate 無法近 multivariate analyses. 切除 involvement more 等效 one lobe, 未達 total resection 較 achieved, and 之 equivalent dose 統計 α/β ratio=10) 結論 less than 本 GyE had 中並 associating with 一日 prognosis, which 的 not statistically 治療 In our 較 patients didn't 治療 from hyperfractionated 將來 Due to 需要 patient number, 的 investigation is 認惡性 to evaluate 膠質瘤 benefit and 適合 of hyperfractionated 方式
Aims 目的 Background: To 一日 if hyperfractionated 或 provides better 兩 control over 治療 radiotherapy for 併 glioma without 治療 The records 於 48 patients 膠質瘤 glioblastoma multiforme 材料 anaplastic astrocytoma 方法 with hyperfractionated/standard 於 were reviewed 化學 survival and 僅單 factors analyses. 接受 radiation schedule 治療 of standard 膠質瘤 (1.8~2 Gy/day) 進行 hyperfractionated fractionation 性 Gy twice/day 放射 at least 一日 hours interval), 日 on the 一日 of different 兩次 None of 其中 received chemotherapy. 接受 patients underwent 切片 only, and 無 patients underwent 位 resection. The 局部 12 patients 而 gross tumor 完全 Survival rates 存活率 estimated using 使用 method of 來計算 and Meier. 相關 univariate analyses 單變項 survival time, 採用 different variables 多 compared using 則 log rank 來 Within the 結果 of Cox 中位 models, multivariate 個 was performed 位 differentiate the 達到 between variables 反應 their relevance 反應 the survival.Results: 的 patient was 是 to follow-up. 反應 survival was 惡化 months (range, 兩次並 months). Two 較 had complete 的 after radiotherapy. 月數 had partial 個 The other 在 had stable 項及 or progression. 分析 hyperfractionated radiotherapy 發現 didn't show 大 benefit on 為 (13 vs. 義的 months, p=0.439). 差 older than 預 years showed 腫瘤 prognosis in 超過 univariate and 無法近 analyses. Tumor 切除 more than 等效 lobe, grossly 未達 resection not 較 and biologically 之 dose (assuming 統計 ratio=10) (BED10) 結論 than 72 本 had trends 中並 with worse 一日 which were 的 statistically significant.Conclusion: 治療 our study, 較 didn't benefit 治療 hyperfractionated radiotherapy. 將來 to small 需要 number, further 的 is warranted 認惡性 evaluate the 膠質瘤 and toxicity 適合 hyperfractionated radiotherapy.
背景 Between 2003 研究 2007, we 及 included 44 族群 proven oropharynx-hypopharynx 為 patients who 並且 aged more 手術 70 years 探討 treated non-surgically. 療合 groups were 放療 the group 接受 (induction chemotherapy 之 CCRT, n=22) 方法 the group 收集 (RT alone, 組織 Patients in 口咽 group B 癌 1:1 match-paired 歲 those in 接受 group A 病人 using three 分為 cancer subsite, 前導性 and clinical 同步化 Totally, there 組 36 males 放射 8 females, 病人 a median 位置 of 76 及 (range, 70-88 在 Patient survival 使用 cancer control ( defined as 配對 end points.Background: 共有 study intended 及 compare treatment 案例 between induction 數為 plus chemoradiotherapy 佈 and radiotherapy ~ alone in 的 oropharynx-hypopharynx carcinoma ( who were 病人 curatively and 及 The median 結果 time for 追 patients was 時 months (range, 位 months). At 個 years, the 佈 A demonstrated ~ cancer controls 在 the group 比 in terms 的 locoregional control 在 versus 36.4%, 區域 and disease-free 及無病 (61.4% versus 然而 p=0.035). However, 特異 statistically significant 總 were found 兩組 disease-specific and 差異 survivals. Not 的 more treatment-related 組有 were observed 的 the group ~ than in 比 group B 沒 3-4 mucositis, 手術 versus 27.3%, 口 For elderly 患者 carcinoma patients 前導 nonsurgically, induction 併 plus CCRT 比起 improves cancer 放射 when compared 增進 RT alone. 只 alone should 治療 reserved for 適合臨 who are 適合 contra-indicated to 病人
Methods: 背景 2003 and 研究 we retrospectively 及 44 histologically 族群 oropharynx-hypopharynx carcinoma 為 who were 並且 more than 手術 years and 探討 non-surgically. Two 療合 were defined: 放療 group A 接受 chemotherapy plus 之 n=22) and 方法 group B 收集 alone, n=22). 組織 in the 口咽 B were 癌 match-paired to 歲 in the 接受 A by 病人 three factors: 分為 subsite, gender, 前導性 clinical stage. 同步化 there were 組 males and 放射 females, with 病人 median age 位置 76 years 及 70-88 years). 在 survival and 使用 control were ( as study 配對 points.Background: This 共有 intended to 及 treatment results 案例 induction chemotherapy 數為 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) 佈 radiotherapy (RT) ~ in elderly 的 carcinoma patients ( were treated 病人 and non-surgically.Results: 及 median follow-up 結果 for all 追 was 35.0 時 (range, 1-72 位 At 3 個 the group 佈 demonstrated better ~ controls than 在 group B, 比 terms of 的 control (86.4% 在 36.4%, p=0.002) 區域 disease-free survival 及無病 versus 36.4%, 然而 However, no 特異 significant differences 總 found on 兩組 and overall 差異 Not surprisingly, 的 treatment-related toxicity 組有 observed in 的 group A ~ in the 比 B (grade 沒 mucositis, 63.6% 手術 27.3%, p=0.015).Conclusions: 口 elderly oropharynx-hypopharynx 患者 patients treated 前導 induction chemotherapy 併 CCRT significantly 比起 cancer control 放射 compared with 增進 alone. RT 只 should be 治療 for patients 適合臨 are medically 適合 to chemotherapy.
目的 To investigate 癌 impact of 腫瘤 volume in 於 with the 放射 of tongue 影響 cancer treated 方法 definitive intensity-modulated 分析 technique (IMRT).Materials 到 Methods: From 位確 to 2009, 二至 patients with 癌 Ⅱ-Ⅳ squamous 接受 carcinoma of 治療 BOT cancer 病例 organ preservation 病人 were enrolled 兩階段 this retrospective 放射 Radiotherapy was 每天 using a 放射 IMRT. All 原發 received 1.8 轉移性 daily up 的 a median 之 dose 01 預防性 Gy to 的 tumors and 中位值 Iymph nodes, 的 the area 接受 microscopic disease 之 prescribed with 治療 median dose 放療 50.4 Gy. 第 patients had 體積 chemotherapy. The 與 consisted of 取自 (80-100 mg/m^2 前及 Days 1, 之模擬 43). Primary 結果 volume measurement 個 derived using 追 simulation images 間 the pretreatment ( tumor volume 發現 and the 或 gross tumor 之 (iGTV).Results: With 發 median follow-up 之 of 18 相關 24 patients 其中 were found 三期 have locoregional 癌症 The 2-year 為 survival was 之 all patients 存活率 24%. The 另 could be 兩年 into 25% 無 stage Ⅱ-Ⅲ 為 and 18% 的 stage Ⅳ ％ (p=0.29). The 原發 primary relapse-free 之 (PRFS) was 範圍 for patients 治療 T2-T3 disease, 體積 the curve 範圍 to zero 變數 patients with 原發 disease (p=0.01). 發 pGTV value 預後 from 8.1 原發 165 mL 大 34.6 mL), 比 the iGTV 間 from 3.8 期中 79.3 mL 降低 19.4 mL). ( analysis showed 信賴區 there were 結論 predictors for 報告 PRFS: pGTV≧20ml 調控 hazard ratio=5.87, 於 CI 1.29-26.72) 保留 volume reduction 舌根 (VRR)＜0.4 (p=0.002, 的 ratio 4.33, 並不 CI l.71~10.99).Conclusions: 於 preliminary study 大 that IMRT 期中 in the 降低 cancer patients 於 unsatisfactory. To 必須 the treatment 更 an aggressive 治療 scheme should 提高 considered for 的 pretreatment tumor 提高 or a 治療 less than 併
Purpose: 目的 investigate the 癌 of tumor 腫瘤 in patients 於 the base 放射 tongue (BOT) 影響 treated with 方法 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 分析 (IMRT).Materials and 到 From 2003 位確 2009, 35 二至 with stage 癌 squamous cell 接受 of the 治療 cancer receiving 病例 preservation scheme 病人 enrolled in 兩階段 retrospective analysis. 放射 was performed 每天 a sequential 放射 All patients 原發 1.8 Gy 轉移性 up to 的 median total 之 01 70.2 預防性 to gross 的 and metastatic 中位值 nodes, whereas 的 area harboring 接受 disease was 之 with a 治療 dose of 放療 Gy. Twenty-four 第 had concurrent 體積 The regimen 與 of cisplatin 取自 mg/m^2 on 前及 1, 22, 之模擬 Primary tumor 結果 measurement was 個 using separate 追 images for 間 pretreatment gross ( volume (pGTV) 發現 the interval 或 tumor volume 之 With a 發 follow-up duration 之 18 months, 相關 patients (68.5%) 其中 found to 三期 locoregional failures. 癌症 2-year cause-specific 為 was for 之 patients was 存活率 The curve 另 be split 兩年 25% for 無 Ⅱ-Ⅲ disease, 為 18% for 的 Ⅳ disease ％ The 2-year 原發 relapse-free survival 之 was 35% 範圍 patients with 治療 disease, and 體積 curve dropped 範圍 zero for 變數 with T4 原發 (p=0.01). The 發 value ranged 預後 8.1 to 原發 mL (median, 大 mL), whereas 比 iGTV ranged 間 3.8 to 期中 mL (median, 降低 mL). Multivariate ( showed that 信賴區 were two 結論 for the 報告 pGTV≧20ml (p=0.02, 調控 ratio=5.87, 95% 於 1.29-26.72) and 保留 reduction rate 舌根 (p=0.002, hazard 的 4.33, 95% 並不 l.71~10.99).Conclusions: This 於 study shows 大 IMRT outcome 期中 the BOT 降低 patients was 於 To optimize 必須 treatment result, 更 aggressive treatment 治療 should be 提高 for large 的 tumor burden 提高 a VRR 治療 than 0.4.
目的 To analyze 局限 treatment outcome 食道 patients with 之 small cell 結果 (SmCC) of 及 Patients with 回顧 SmCC of 一九八五年 presenting to 二 Veterans General 一年期 between 1985 於 2001 were 榮民 reviewed. Demographic 治療 clinical data 局限 presented and 食道 We calculated 報告並 survival with 其 Kaplan-Meier method 統計 compared the 資料 between different 利用 with the 病患 test.Results: SmCC 狀況 esophagus represented 來 of esophageal 較 in this 病患 Eleven (one 之 and ten 結果 patients with 占 SmCC of 醫院 were included 食道 this study. 的 median age 研究 70 years 含括 41-82 years). 他們 of 11 年齡 had the 數為 primary neoplasm 其中 the middle 病患 thoracic esophagus. 腫瘤 a median 中段 of 11 食道 (range, 2-144 追 only one 間 remained alive 位 disease and 為 other ten 的 died of 下 disease or 病患 complication. The 存活 overall survival 皆 11 months, 或 survival rates 副作用 1, 2 病患 5 years 中位 36%, 18% 個 9%, respectively. 其 the last 及 visit or 存活率 lour patients 為 loco-regional failure 病患 and live 後 had loco-regional 蹤 distant relapse. 當時 observed significantly 病人 median survival 局部 patients 70 五位 old or 有 (16 months 並遠端 5 months 此外 patients older 觀察到 70 years 未 P=0.036), patients 歲 chemotherapy (16 病患 vs. 5 接受 in patients 的 receiving chemotherapy, 及 and patients 接受 local treatment 化學 or surgery) 的 chemotherapy (21 會 vs. 6 長 in patients 存活 receiving local 食道 plus chemotherapy, 一個 SmCC of 惡性 was an 預 neoplasm with 的 prognosis. We 我們 local therapy 給予 chemotherapy for 食道 with limited 病患 SmCC of 化學
Purpose: 目的 analyze the 局限 outcome of 食道 with limited-stage 之 cell carcinoma 結果 of esophagus.Methods: 及 with limited-stage 回顧 of esophagus 一九八五年 to Taipei 二 General Hospital 一年期 1985 and 於 were retrospectively 榮民 Demographic and 治療 data were 局限 and analyzed. 食道 calculated overall 報告並 with the 其 method and 統計 the survival 資料 different groups 利用 the log-rank 病患 SmCC of 狀況 represented 0.89% 來 esophageal malignancies 較 this institution. 病患 (one female 之 ten male) 結果 with limited-stage 占 of esophagus 醫院 included in 食道 study. The 的 age was 研究 years (range, 含括 years). Eight 他們 11 patients 年齡 the main 數為 neoplasm over 其中 middle third 病患 esophagus. With 腫瘤 median follow-up 中段 11 months 食道 2-144 months), 追 one patient 間 alive without 位 and the 為 ten patients 的 of the 下 or treatment 病患 The median 存活 survival was 皆 months, with 或 rates at 副作用 2 and 病患 years were 中位 18% and 個 respectively. At 其 last follow-up 及 or mortality, 存活率 patients had 為 failure only 病患 live patients 後 loco-regional and 蹤 relapse. We 當時 significantly longer 病人 survival in 局部 70 years 五位 or younger 有 months vs. 並遠端 months in 此外 older than 觀察到 years old, 未 patients receiving 歲 (16 months 病患 5 months 接受 patients not 的 chemotherapy, P=0.001), 及 patients receiving 接受 treatment (radiotherapy 化學 surgery) plus 的 (21 months 會 6 months 長 patients not 存活 local treatment 食道 chemotherapy, P=0.003).Conclusions: 一個 of esophagus 惡性 an aggressive 預 with poor 的 We recommend 我們 therapy plus 給予 for patients 食道 limited stage 病患 of esophagus.
雖然 though pancreatic 臺 accounts for 癌症 2% of 胰臟癌 cancer diagnoses 臺 Taiwan, it 死因 one of 最難 ten leading 惡性 of cancer 在 and the 的 difficult malignancy 可切除 manage. Because 有 the usually 在 onset symptoms, 局部 of the 無法 presented with 於 disease. Only 分配 of patients 我們 resectable disease 局部 initial diagnosis. 胰臟癌 30% of 合 present with 放射 advanced disease 的 precludes resection. 顯示 use of 併 for locally 治療 pancreatic cancer 存活期 is based 放射 few randomized 但 Recent meta-analysis 治療 a survival 侵犯 for chemoradiotherapy 病患 radiotherapy alone; 計學上 chemoradiotherapy did 差異 demonstrate significant 臨床 advantage over 較 alone. Because 副作用 similar outcome 醫師 lower toxicity, 化學 based chemotherapy 局部 considered as 胰臟癌 standard of 標準 in many 治療 situations. However, 侵犯 is much 的 about the 許多 of radiotherapy 對 local disease 整理 This paper 局部 the current 胰臟癌 options, controversies, 選擇 ongoing and 以及 directions for 方向 treatment of 我們 focusing on 第二 role of 中 The rationale ) results of 侵犯 phaseⅡ study 引導式 LAPC using 再給 chemotherapy followed 化學 chemoradiation (TCOG1204) 治療 be presented.
Even 雖然 pancreatic cancer 臺 for only 癌症 of all 胰臟癌 diagnoses in 臺 it is 死因 of the 最難 leading causes 惡性 cancer death 在 the most 的 malignancy to 可切除 Because of 有 usually late 在 symptoms, hall 局部 the patients 無法 with metastatic 於 Only 10-15% 分配 patients had 我們 disease at 局部 diagnosis. Around 胰臟癌 of patients 合 with locally 放射 disease that 的 resection. The 顯示 of chemoradiotherapy 併 locally advanced 治療 cancer (LAPC) 存活期 based on 放射 randomized trials. 但 meta-analysis revealed 治療 survival benefit 侵犯 chemoradiotherapy over 病患 alone; however, 計學上 did not 差異 significant survival 臨床 over chemotherapy 較 Because of 副作用 outcome and 醫師 toxicity, gemcitabine 化學 chemotherapy is 局部 as a 胰臟癌 of care 標準 many clinical 治療 However, there 侵犯 much controversy 的 the role 許多 radiotherapy in 對 disease control. 整理 paper reviews 局部 current management 胰臟癌 controversies, and 選擇 and future 以及 for the 方向 of LAPC, 我們 on the 第二 of radiotherapy. 中 rationale and ) of our 侵犯 study on 引導式 using induction 再給 followed by 化學 (TCOG1204) will 治療 presented.
腫瘤 is influenced 的 factors extrinsic 環境會 cancer cells. 的 cells and 在 immune cells 中 the tumour 和 are the 細胞則 components that 影響 affect the 的 of radiotherapy. 因子 benefits of 分次 radiotherapy are 引發 by up-regulation 增加 hypoxia inducible 分次 (HIF-lα) and 另外 growth factor 新生 Further, the 療效會 effect of 中 agents is 生性 by the 前 of endogenous 和 cells into 之外 tumour microenvironment. 也 addition to 中 cells, immune 重要 play an 免疫 role in 種類 microenvironment that 於 tumour growth 的 response to 很大 In this 在 we highlight 中 of the 最近 studies on 腫瘤 importance of 免疫 cells in 文獻 microenvironment. The 發展 in developing 合 of radiotherapy 以及 immunotherapy or 或 methods for 整個 of the 方式 immune microenvironment 在 yield fruitful 將來 in the 的 future.
Radioresponse 腫瘤 influenced by 的 extrinsic to 環境會 cells. Endothelial 的 and infiltrating 在 cells within 中 tumour microenvironment 和 the two 細胞則 that significantly 影響 the outcome 的 radiotherapy. The 因子 of fractionated 分次 are reduced 引發 up-regulation of 增加 inducible factor-lα 分次 and vasculoendothelial 另外 factor (VEGF). 新生 the therapeutic 療效會 of anti-angiogenic 中 is counteracted 生性 the mobilization 前 endogenous proangiogenic 和 into the 之外 microenvironment. In 也 to endothelial 中 immune cells 重要 an important 免疫 in the 種類 that regulates 於 growth and 的 to therapy. 很大 this review, 在 highlight some 中 the recent 最近 on the 腫瘤 of immune 免疫 in the 文獻 The progress 發展 developing combinations 合 radiotherapy and 以及 or other 或 for modulation 整個 the tumour 方式 microenvironment may 在 fruitful results 將來 the near 的
目的 To compare 兩種 planning performance － dose-volume-based IMRT 以劑 (DV-based IMRT 體積 (DV-plan) ) 條件 DV-plan with 的 equivalent uniform 放射 (gEUD) optimization 簡稱 IMRT plan, 以 ) on 為 breast cancer 廣義 and Methods: 劑量 consecutive BBC 優化 (staged: T2-T4) 輔 planed using 調控 planning system 計劃 the Pinnacle^3 對 8.0 m, 病患 Fitchburg, WI) 的 compare the 與 of DV-and 研究 plans. The 疾病 was delivered ~ a Varian 乳癌 EX Linac ^ Medical Systems, 治療 CA) equipped 分別 a 120-leaf 計劃 collimator. The 較 doses were 有 Gy/28 fractions 葉式 the planned ( volume (PTV). 執行 dosimetric parameters 計劃 included the ) index (CI), 處方為 index (HI) 的 tumor control 利用 (TCP) for 估量 PTV; and 包括 20Gy) and 指標 30Gy) for 勻稱 total lung ) heart, respectively; 控制率 mean dose, 危及 tissue complication 心 (NTCP) for 的 both OARs. ) planning delivery 下標 was checked.Results: 平均 techniques fulfilled 正常 objectives on 發生率 coverage. A 同時 CI and 計劃 of the 正 were observed 與 both plans. 符合 the OARs, 的 significantly superior 指標 tissue sparing 指標 observed in 表現 The DV-gEUD-plan 而 smaller mean 器官 of lung 優勢 heart, V(subscript 肺臟 of lung, 與 V(subscript 30Gy) 下標 heart (p＜0.05) 心臟 respect to 在 DV-plan. Both 低 presented a 小 QA pass 計劃 (＞95.5%) of 下標 T(subscript 3mm. ) criterion.Conclusions: A 都 plan (DV-gEUD-plan) 以上 be obtained 率 a combination 與 DV-and gEUD-based 函數 function, This 更好 approach can 結果 the number 的 trial and 減少 in DV-plan 次數 while retaining 所 better dose 最佳 which gEUD-plan 佈 provide.
Purpose: 目的 compare the 兩種 performance between － IMRT plans 以劑 IMRT plan, 體積 ) and 條件 with generalized 的 uniform dose 放射 optimization (DV-gEUD-based 簡稱 plan, (DV-gEUD-plan) 以 on bilateral 為 cancer (BBC).Materials 廣義 Methods: Six 劑量 BBC patients 優化 T2-T4) were 輔 using the 調控 system of 計劃 Pinnacle^3 (version 對 m, Philips, 病患 WI) to 的 the performance 與 DV-and DV-gEUD 研究 The plan 疾病 delivered on ~ Varian 21 乳癌 Linac (Varian ^ Systems, Milpitas, 治療 equipped with 分別 120-leaf multileaf 計劃 The prescribed 較 were 50.4 有 fractions to 葉式 planned target ( (PTV). The 執行 parameters used 計劃 the conformity ) (CI), homogeneity 處方為 (HI) and 的 control probability 利用 for the 估量 and V(subscript 包括 and V(subscript 指標 for the 勻稱 lung and ) respectively; and 控制率 dose, normal 危及 complication probability 心 for the 的 OARs. The ) delivery accuracy 下標 checked.Results: Both 平均 fulfilled the 正常 on target 發生率 A comparable 同時 and HI 計劃 the PTV 正 observed on 與 plans. For 符合 OARs, a 的 superior normal 指標 sparing was 指標 in DV-gEUD-plan. 表現 DV-gEUD-plan has 而 mean dose 器官 lung and 優勢 V(subscript 20Gy) 肺臟 lung, and 與 30Gy) of 下標 (p＜0.05) with 心臟 to the 在 Both plans 低 a high 小 pass rate 計劃 of the 下標 3mm. 3%) ) A better 都 (DV-gEUD-plan) can 以上 obtained through 率 combination of 與 gEUD-based objective 函數 This hybrid 更好 can reduce 結果 number of 的 and error 減少 DV-plan processing 次數 retaining a 所 dose distribution 最佳 gEUD-plan can 佈
目的 To improve 仰臥式 homogeneity in 技術 body irradiation 於 with lateral 治療 Dose homogeneity 的 dosimetry of 分 shielding are 均 and Methods: 討此 patients, three 的 acute Iymphocytic 現性 (ALL), one 肺部 acute myelocytic 計算和驗證 (AML), and 和 with non-Hodgkin's 採用 (NHL), were 箱作 total body 患者 with lateral 姿勢 An acrylic 治療 was designed 並於其 treatment table, 空間 water bags 水袋 utilized as 填滿 compensators to 以作 the surrounding 填充物 conforming patients' 治療 contours as 選擇 LiF thermoluminescent 之 (TLDs) were 至體 along the 離為 points on 率 body surface. 每 dose 1200 五位 using 15 接受 photons with 治療 rate 5 適當 divided in 參考點 fractions within 建 days was 鋰熱 at the 量計 of the 測實際 while partial 治療 block was 為 to deliver 兩次 to 960 八次 to the 總計量 of thorax 肺部 sum after 厚度 correction calculation. 鉛 mean doses 阻擋 different reference 劑量 throughout the 低 were obtained 結果 calculation of 病人 to four 所有 for each 設點 to investigate 得 homogeneity.Results: After 均 of tissue 到 with water 值誤 thoroughly surrounding 於 patients, the 接受 dose homogeneity 在 measured withinacceptable 的 from the 也 dose. Postural 到 and reproducibility 驗證 satisfied. Treatment 再 took about 整個 minutes and 過程 tolerated the 五 well.Conclusion: Though 鐘內 TBI technique 結論 commonly used 臥式 regard to 應用 dose uniformity 全身 setup procedures, 治療 is superiority 水袋 consistency of 填充物 shielding and 於 comfort to 狀況 lateral technique 差 fragile patients, 支撐 when low 患者 rate is 量 and treatment 勻度 prolongs. The 可 of tissue 範圍 with water 並可 as an 更佳 can be 屏蔽 setup with 及 dose homogeneity 與 treatment time.
Purpose: 目的 improve dose 仰臥式 in total 技術 irradiation (TBI) 於 lateral technique. 治療 homogeneity and 的 of lung 分 are investigated.Materials 均 Methods: Five 討此 three with 的 Iymphocytic leukemia 現性 one with 肺部 myelocytic leukemia 計算和驗證 and one 和 non-Hodgkin's Iymphoma 採用 were delivered 箱作 body irradiation 患者 lateral technique. 姿勢 acrylic box 治療 designed for 並於其 table, and 空間 bags were 水袋 as tissue 填滿 to fill 以作 surrounding space, 填充物 patients' body 治療 as possible. 選擇 thermoluminescent dosimeters 之 were positioned 至體 the reference 離為 on the 率 surface. Treatment 每 1200 cGy, 五位 15 MV 接受 with dose 治療 5 cGy/minute, 適當 in 8 參考點 within 4 建 was prescribed 鋰熱 the midline 量計 the body, 測實際 partial lung 治療 was designed 為 deliver 900 兩次 960 cGy 八次 the midline 總計量 thorax in 肺部 after lung 厚度 calculation. The 鉛 doses of 阻擋 reference points 劑量 the body 低 obtained after 結果 of three 病人 four measurements 所有 each patient 設點 investigate dose 得 After application 均 tissue compensators 到 water bags 值誤 surrounding the 於 the average 接受 homogeneity was 在 withinacceptable difference 的 the prescribed 也 Postural stability 到 reproducibility were 驗證 Treatment duration 再 about 50 整個 and patients 過程 the procedures 五 Though anterioposterior 鐘內 technique is 結論 used with 臥式 to better 應用 uniformity and 全身 procedures, there 治療 superiority of 水袋 of lung 填充物 and patients' 於 to utilize 狀況 technique for 差 patients, especially 支撐 low dose 患者 is used 量 treatment duration 勻度 The application 可 tissue compensators 範圍 water bags 並可 an alternative 更佳 be easily 屏蔽 with acceptable 及 homogeneity and 與 time.
頸部 showing thymus-like 樣 (CASTLE) is 是 rare malignant 於 occurring in 頸部軟 thyroid gland 腫瘤 in the 組織 tissue of 生化 neck. A 的 diagnosis can 手術 made through 認為 examination and 放射 profile. The 腫瘤 treatment modality 治療 surgical excision. 仍 is considered 提出 radiosensitive tumor, 胸腺 the role 細胞癌 radiotherapy is 其 This is 頸 report on 接受 case of 手術 of the 下難 treated with 追 but without 電 margin. A 發 tumor was 腫瘤 on computed 接受 scan during 治療 so sequential 最 and radiotherapy 追 given. No 間 recurrence or 後 metastasis was 沒 47 months 發及 initial diagnosis.
Carcinoma 頸部 thymus-like differentiation 樣 is a 是 malignant tumor 於 in the 頸部軟 gland or 腫瘤 the soft 組織 of the 生化 A definitive 的 can be 手術 through histolopathologic 認為 and immunohistochemical 放射 The main 腫瘤 modality is 治療 excision. It 仍 considered a 提出 tumor, however, 胸腺 role of 細胞癌 is uncertain. 其 is a 頸 on a 接受 of CASTLE 手術 the neck 下難 with surgery 追 without adequate 電 A residual 發 was suspected 腫瘤 computed tomogram 接受 during follow-up, 治療 sequential chemotherapy 最 radiotherapy were 追 No local 間 or distant 後 was found 沒 months after 發及 diagnosis.
目的 The purpose 研究 this study 目的 to analyze 肝 overall survival 有 of patients 的 bone metastasis 評估 hepatocellular carcinoma 存活率 and prognostic 預 affecting their 材料 and Methods: 方法 June 1999 月 January 2005, 年 were 69 共有 with bone 病人 from HCC 細胞癌 were treated 骨頭 our hospital. 我們 variables, such 接受 gender, age 研究 diagnosis of 的 metastasis, Pugh's 診斷 of Child's 轉移 of cirrhosis 性別 staging system, 肝硬化 status, serum 系統 of α-fetoprotein 骨頭 diagnosis of 方式 metastasis from 結果 methods of ) for bone 男性 site of ) metastasis and 女性 to organ 的 than bones 中位 analyzed about 在 influence upon 方面 Fifty-two patients 骨頭 are male 那天 17 patients 起 are female. 中位 medium age 個 diagnosis of 月 metastasis was 年 years old ( from 31 分別 78 years 在 The medium 變數 from diagnosis 肝硬化 bone metastasis 分期 3.06 months. 系統 6-month, 1-year ) 2-year overall 整體 rates were ( 11.59% and 是 respectively. In 義的 analysis, Child's 因子 of cirrhosis 多 Okuda staging 中 (p=0.0002), and 整體 status (p=0.0277) ) statistically significant 有意 for survival. 後 multivariate analysis, 結論 status (p=0.003) 骨頭 the only 患者 prognostic factor.Conclusion: 為 survival of 改善 with bone 需要 from HCC 更 poor. To 患者 the outcome, 安排 should enroll 肝癌 patients and 治療 prospective trial 系統 combination of 的 and systemic therapy.
Purpose: 目的 purpose of 研究 study is 目的 analyze the 肝 survival rate 有 patients with 的 metastasis from 評估 carcinoma (HCC) 存活率 prognostic factors 預 their outcomes.Materials 材料 Methods: From 方法 1999 to 月 2005, there 年 69 patients 共有 bone metastasis 病人 HCC who 細胞癌 treated at 骨頭 hospital. The 我們 such as 接受 age of 研究 of bone 的 Pugh's modification 診斷 Child's grading 轉移 cirrhosis Okuda 性別 system, performance 肝硬化 serum level 系統 α-fetoprotein at 骨頭 of bone 方式 from HCC, 結果 of treatment ) bone metastasis, 男性 of bone ) and metastasis 女性 organ other 的 bones were 中位 about their 在 upon prognosis.Results: 方面 patients (75.4%) 骨頭 male and 那天 patients (24.6%) 起 female. The 中位 age of 個 of bone 月 was 66 年 old (range ( 31 to 分別 years old). 在 medium survival 變數 diagnosis of 肝硬化 metastasis was 分期 months. The 系統 1-year and ) overall survival 整體 were 30.43%, ( and 5.80%, 是 In univariate 義的 Child's grading 因子 cirrhosis (p=0.0022), 多 staging system 中 and performance 整體 (p=0.0277) were ) significant factors 有意 survival. In 後 analysis, performance 結論 (p=0.003) was 骨頭 only significant 患者 factor.Conclusion: The 為 of patients 改善 bone metastasis 需要 HCC was 更 To improve 患者 outcome, we 安排 enroll more 肝癌 and arrange 治療 trial by 系統 of locoregional 的 systemic therapy.
: To evaluate : efficacy of ( conformal radiotherapy ( for unresectable ) post-operative residual ) tract carcinoma ( and Methods: ) September 1997 ) August 2005, . patients with . unresectable (23 : or post-operative ( (5 patients) ( were treated ) 3D-CRT. The ) radiation dose ( 62.0 Gy ( Gy/1.8-2.5 Gy). ) patients also . chemotherapy. The . follow-up time ( all patients ( 6.4 months.Results: ) median progression-free . (PFS) was . months and . 2-year actuarial . rate was . The median . survival (OS) : 8.4 months ( the 2-year ( OS rate ) 23.1%. In ) analysis, both . and PFS ( correlate with ( performance status, ) radiation dose ) serum carbohydrate . 19-9 level. . PFS also . associates with . tumor status. . multivariate analysis: : performance status : 0 or ( and higher : dose (＞50.0 : were two ) prognostic factors ) showed for ( with both ( (p＜0.001 and ＞ respectively) and ) (p＜0.001 and ) respectively). The ( incidence of ( gastrointestinal bleeding ＜ patients without ) previous peptic ) history was ( and the ( were medically ＜ The study ＜ that performance ) and RT . are two . for outcome . patients treated . 3D-CRT for : or postoperative . BTC.
Purpose: : evaluate the : of three-dimensional ( radiotherapy (3D-CRT) ( unresectable or ) residual biliary ) carcinoma (BTC).Materials ( Methods: From ) 1997 to ) 2005, twenty-eight . with localized . (23 patients) : post-operative residual ( patients) BTC ( treated by ) The median ) dose was ( Gy (21.6-70.0 ( Gy). Seven ) also underwent . The median . time for ( patients was ( months.Results: The ) progression-free survival . was 5.8 . and the . actuarial PFS . was 10.7%. . median overall . (OS) was : months and ( 2-year actuarial ( rate was ) In univariate ) both OS . PFS strongly ( with the ( status, jaundice, ) dose and ) carbohydrate antigen . level. The . also significantly . with unresectable . status. After . analysis: good : status (ECOG: : or 1) ( higher radiation : (＞50.0 Gy) : two independent ) factors which ) for patients ( both PFS ( and p=0.046, ＞ and OS ) and p=0.010, ) The overall ( of upper ( bleeding in ＜ without any ) peptic ulcer ) was 18.2% ( the complications ( medically manageable.Conclusions: ＜ study demonstrated ＜ performance status ) RT dose . two predictors . outcome in . treated with . for unresectable : postoperative residual .
目的 To investigate 使用 clinical outcomes 刀 patients with 定位 and metastatic 治療 tumors treated ) CyberKnife(superscript ®) 原發性 stereotactic body 肺 (SBRT).Methods: Between 病患 2005 and 臨床 2008, we 回溯 19 patients 討自 SBRT at 月 Medical University-Wan 月間 Hospital. The 萬芳 was delivered 接受 CK tumor 病患 system. Tumor 醫療 and treatment-related 是 were evaluated 刀 follow-up image 腫瘤 Treatment-related toxicities 蹤 scored by 來 Terminology Criteria 行 Adverse Events 治療 3.0. In 腫瘤 study, we 相關 their medical 副作用 retrospectively.Results: We 以 47 lung 影像 in 19 評估 using CK 相關 Eleven tumors 分級 8 patients 記錄 primary lung 之 and 36 結果 in 11 接受 were metastatic 刀 cancer. The 腫瘤 of 9 共 were central, 腫瘤 the others 顆腫瘤 peripheral. The 原發 volumes were 顆腫瘤 from 1.1 顆腫瘤 110.5 ml 於 9.5 ml). 其餘位 radiation doses 腫瘤 ranged from 於 to 60 毫升 given in 毫升 to 4 之劑 The prescribed 於 were normalized 歸一化 76% to 之 of the 劑量 isodose. With 分 median follow-up 給予 of 12 個 we observed 之中 grade 2 蹤 pneumonitis (RP) 間 in 3 共有 (1 central; 發生 peripheral), whereas 放射性 found that 另有 3 RP 發生 in 2 放射性 with central 分析 According to 女性 univariate analysis, ) (p=0.038) and 中央 lesion (p=0.042) 肺 two predictive ) to the 單變項 of grade≥2 中有 One grade 之 tracheal complication 在 fistula) and 為 grade 5 中央 complication (bronchial 肺 were observed 且 two patients 接受 had centrally 肺部 recurrent tumors 放射 had been 病患 treated with 觀察到 beam radiotherapy. 食道 of the 支氣 patients (16 死 had responded 治療 (25%), seven 於 partial response 分析 treatment (43.8%), 控制率 two had 中 disease (12.5%). ( patients had 為 progression after ( (18.7%). The 位 overall survival ) was 63%, 位 the 1-year 為 progression-free survival 一年 was 84.2%. 整體 1-year local 一年 was 87.5% 局部 primary lung 存活率 and 81.8% 原發性 metastatic lung 轉移性 (p=0.87). The 之一 local PFS 無病 central and ( lesions was ) and 85.7%, 型 (p=0.63).Conclusion: Our 週邊 showed that 肺 using the 年 system was 無病 for treating ( and metastatic ) tumors, providing 上 local control 差異 shorter treatment 於 compared with 早期 treated with 中 fractionated radiotherapy. 刀 study also 體部 two predicting 治療 for RP. 有效 using SBRT 原發性 treat centrally 轉移性 tumor or 腫瘤 recurrent tumor 中央 additional caution 或 to higher 己 of having 放射 Thus, we 之 that more 發肺 are needed 應特別 the future 避免 confirm those 嚴重 in this study.
Purpose: 目的 investigate the 使用 outcomes of 刀 with primary 定位 metastatic lung 治療 treated by ) ®) (CK) 原發性 body radiotherapy 肺 Between November 病患 and June 臨床 we treated 回溯 patients with 討自 at Taipei 月 University-Wan Fang 月間 The SBRT 萬芳 delivered by 接受 tumor tracking 病患 Tumor response 醫療 treatment-related toxicity 是 evaluated by 刀 image study. 腫瘤 toxicities were 蹤 by Common 來 Criteria for 行 Events version 治療 In this 腫瘤 we reviewed 相關 medical records 副作用 We treated 以 lung tumors 影像 19 patients 評估 CK SBRT. 相關 tumors in 分級 patients were 記錄 lung cancer, 之 36 tumors 結果 11 patients 接受 metastatic lung 刀 The locations 腫瘤 9 tumors 共 central, whereas 腫瘤 others were 顆腫瘤 The tumor 原發 were ranged 顆腫瘤 1.1 to 顆腫瘤 ml (median, 於 ml). The 其餘位 doses were 腫瘤 from 22 於 60 Gy, 毫升 in 2 毫升 4 fractions. 之劑 prescribed doses 於 normalized at 歸一化 to 85% 之 the planned 劑量 With a 分 follow-up interval 給予 12 months, 個 observed that 之中 2 radiation 蹤 (RP) occurred 間 3 patients 共有 central; 2 發生 whereas we 放射性 that grade 另有 RP occurred 發生 2 patients 放射性 central lesions. 分析 to the 女性 analysis, female ) and central 中央 (p=0.042) were 肺 predictive factors ) the occurrence 單變項 grade≥2 RP. 中有 grade 4 之 complication (tracheoesophageal 在 and one 為 5 bronchial 中央 (bronchial necrosis) 肺 observed in 且 patients who 接受 centrally located 肺部 tumors and 放射 been previous 病患 with external 觀察到 radiotherapy. Four 食道 the evaluable 支氣 (16 patients) 死 responded completely 治療 seven exhibited 於 response to 分析 (43.8%), and 控制率 had stable 中 (12.5%). Three ( had tumor 為 after SBRT ( The 1-year 位 survival (OS) ) 63%, and 位 1-year local 為 survival (PFS) 一年 84.2%. The 整體 local PFS 一年 87.5% for 局部 lung cancer 存活率 81.8% for 原發性 lung cancer 轉移性 The 1-year 之一 PFS for 無病 and peripheral ( was 80% ) 85.7%, respectively 型 Our study 週邊 that SBRT 肺 the CK 年 was effective 無病 treating primary ( metastatic lung ) providing better 上 control and 差異 treatment course 於 with those 早期 with conventional 中 radiotherapy. Our 刀 also showed 體部 predicting factors 治療 RP. Finally, 有效 SBRT to 原發性 centrally located 轉移性 or re-irradiate 腫瘤 tumor require 中央 caution due 或 higher risk 己 having complication. 放射 we suggest 之 more studies 發肺 needed in 應特別 future to 避免 those findings 嚴重 this study.
目的 Obturator neuropathy 神經 a late 子 of radiotherapy 放射 and chemo-radiation 學合 cervical cancer 治療 We studied 晚期 feasibility of 之一 the obturator 內 in patients 神經位 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 放射 by delineating 之高劑 obturator nerves 藉由 obturator canals 閉孔 to the 以 dose region 閉孔 pelvis irradiation.Materials 量 Methods: Volumetric 計畫 tomography (CT) 結果 of ten 材料 with cervical 位子 were retrieved. 病人 orientation of 斷層 canals were 資料 based on 教科 knowledge in 選閉 Target volume 經及 obturator nerves 分析 pertinent normal 閉孔 were contoured 治療 reconstructed for 之劑 planning. Dosimetric 對 including dose-volume 參數 (DVHs), maximal 影響 prescription dose 或 and conformal 劑量 were compared 組織 plans with 劑量 without obturator 處方劑 as organ 包覆 avoidance.Result: A 指標 for delineation 結果 obturator canals 界定 IMRT on 於 contrast CT 調控 was derived. 降低 use of 神經劑 the obturator 治療 technique resulted 體外 an average 接受 18.3±4.1 % 劑量 in the 減少 maximum dose 對 the obturator 靶 (p＜0.05). No 之 impact on 劑量 conformality and 佈 of planning 器官 volume (PTV) 體積關 cervical cancer 於 neither significant 並無明 impact on 結論 critical normal 神經劑 in pelvic 治療 We found 在 sparing the 放射 nerve technique 中是 feasible for 除 with cervical 閉孔 and treated 孔神經 IMRT. The 劑量 of doses 不 OBN did 正常 compromise target 及 of tumor 影響 DVHs of 量 normal organs.
Purpose: 目的 neuropathy is 神經 late complication 子 radiotherapy (RT) 放射 chemo-radiation in 學合 cancer patients. 治療 studied the 晚期 of sparing 之一 obturator nerves 內 patients receiving 神經位 radiotherapy (IMRT) 放射 delineating the 之高劑 nerves in 藉由 canals near 閉孔 the high 以 region in 閉孔 irradiation.Materials and 量 Volumetric computed 計畫 (CT) images 結果 ten patients 材料 cervical cancers 位子 retrieved. Anatomical 病人 of obturator 斷層 were gathered 資料 on published 教科 in textbooks. 選閉 volume of 經及 nerves and 分析 normal structures 閉孔 contoured and 治療 for IMRT 之劑 Dosimetric parameters 對 dose-volume histograms 參數 maximal dose, 影響 dose coverage 或 conformal index 劑量 compared between 組織 with and 劑量 obturator nerves 處方劑 organ of 包覆 A guideline 指標 delineation of 結果 canals for 界定 on axial 於 CT images 調控 derived. The 降低 of sparing 神經劑 obturator nerve 治療 resulted in 體外 average of 接受 % decrease 劑量 the calculated 減少 dose of 對 obturator nerves 靶 No significant 之 on the 劑量 and coverage 佈 planning target 器官 (PTV) of 體積關 cancer and 於 significant dosimetric 並無明 on other 結論 normal organs 神經劑 pelvic area.Conclusion: 治療 found that 在 the obturator 放射 technique is 中是 for patients 除 cervical cancer 閉孔 treated with 孔神經 The reduction 劑量 doses to 不 did not 正常 target coverage 及 tumor and 影響 of other 量 organs.
目的 Normally, the 說明 acrylic board 自行 parallel holes 特殊 in prostate 及 implant lead 量角器 to be 攝護腺 to tile 插種 rotate when 達到 need to 讓針 seminal vesicle 及 to avoid 效果 obstruction of 預先模 pubis. In 置入 to overcome 角度 disadvantages of 的 templates, we 以便 a special 的 for guiding 材料 insertion and 方法 when practice 兩片 needle implant.Materials 均 Methods: Two 公分 board, each 公分 7.5 cm “ 7.5 cm 結構 width, length 的 0.5 cm 而 were drilled 每個 set of 結構 holes and 的 combination placed 板 balls inside º combination to 火山 firmly grip 合成 fixation of 針板 both in 此 and rotation “ Thirety nine ” combination concentric 的 array provide 體內 most thirety 有 needles insertion 半球 eight nylon 結果 screwed tight 攝護腺 compress those 過程 nine glass 當 reinforced plastic 特殊 balls inside 可以 combination to 防止 needles fixation. 戳 these materials 避免 been considered 外滑 tolerance not 讓 be spoiled 的 normal sterillizaton 插入 A dosimetric 的 with home-made 與 have been 使用 The special 設計 acrylic board 針板 combination provide 同時 up to 加上 rotation flexibility 量角器 Some area 輔助 isodose curves 固定器 cover in 足以 parallel template 攝護腺 be covered 達到 by using 插種 new designed 如果 This special 再 acrylic board 超音波 combination not 使用 provide a 攝護腺 way for 上 fixation and 在 function, but 插種 provide a 都 dose distribution 讓 anterior portion 達 prostate and 的 coverage of seminal vesicle.
Purpose: 目的 the conventional 說明 board with 自行 holes template 特殊 prostate needle 及 lead disadvantages 量角器 be able 攝護腺 tile or 插種 when needles 達到 to approach 讓針 vesicle or 及 avoid the 效果 of symphysis 預先模 In order 置入 overcome the 角度 of conventional 的 we developed 以便 special template 的 guiding needles 材料 and fixation 方法 practice prostate 兩片 implant.Materials and 均 Two acrylic 公分 each with 公分 cm by “ cm of 結構 length and 的 cm thickness, 而 drilled a 每個 of domed 結構 and cones 的 placed split 板 inside this º to provide 火山 grip and 合成 of needles 針板 in tilting 此 rotation movement. “ nine domed-cones ” concentric circles 的 provide at 體內 thirety nine 有 insertion and 半球 nylon screws 結果 tight to 攝護腺 those thirety 過程 glass fiber 當 plastic split 特殊 inside domed-cones 可以 to support 防止 fixation. All 戳 materials have 避免 considered the 外滑 not to 讓 spoiled under 的 sterillizaton condition.Results: 插入 dosimetric measurement 的 home-made phantom 與 been developed. 使用 special designed 設計 board domed-cones 針板 provide needles 同時 to 60° 加上 flexibility application. 量角器 area that 輔助 curves couldn't 固定器 in conventional 足以 template could 攝護腺 covered now 達到 using this 插種 designed template.Conclusion: 如果 special designed 再 board domed-cones 超音波 not only 使用 a reliable 攝護腺 for needles 上 and rotational 在 but also 插種 a superior 都 distribution in 讓 portion of 達 and well 的 of seminal vesicle.
: The purpose : this study : to describe ( management of ( respiration-induced uncertainty ) the Maximum ) Projection (MIP) ( 4-dimensional (4D) ( and Methods: ) target volumes ) and planning . volumes (PTVs) . contoured on : images of : CT and ( of 4D ( for 12 ) with primary ) cancer or ) lung tumor. ( volumes of ( and PTVs ) compared between ) two sets . images by . the paired . The GTVs . MIP images : cm^3) were : than those ( normal breathing ( (mean=4.74±5.89 cm^3, ^ When applying ^ safe margins ) GTVs to ) their PTVs, ) PTVs of ( images (mean=25.28±20.38 ( became smaller ^ those of ^ breathing images ) 75.04±36.49 cm^3, ) Moreover, in . cases whose . were located ( the lower ( the PTVs ^ normal breathing ^ could not ) cover the ) of the ( images. On ( contrary, for ( above the ^ the differences ^ target volumes ＜ the two ＜ sets were ) and Conclusion: ) CT depicts . excursion of . lung tumor . increases the . of the . definition. The . CT-based plans : reduce the : volumes to . more normal . compared with . plans.
Purpose: : purpose of : study is : describe our ( of the ( uncertainty by ) Maximum Intensity ) (MIP) of ( (4D) CT.Material ( Methods: Gross ) volumes (GTVs) ) planning target . (PTVs) were . on the : of normal-breathing : and MIP ( 4D CT ( 12 patients ) primary lung ) or metastatic ) tumor. The ( of GTVs ( PTVs were ) between the ) sets of . by using . paired t-test.Results: . GTVs of . images (mean=8.13±9.05 : were larger : those of ( breathing images ( cm^3, p=0.04). ^ applying different ^ margins on ) to define ) PTVs, the ) of MIP ( (mean=25.28±20.38 cm^3) ( smaller than ^ of normal ^ images (mean ) cm^3, p=＜0.01). ) in 3 . whose tumors . located in ( lower lung, ( PTVs of ^ breathing images ^ not fully ) the GTVs ) the MIP ( On the ( for tumors ( the carina, ^ differences of ^ volumes between ＜ two image ＜ were smaller.Discussion ) Conclusion: 4D ) depicts the . of a . tumor and . the accuracy . the target . The 4D . plans can : the target : to spare . normal tissues . with conventional .
我們 report the 了 of a 歲 man who 接受 definitive chemoradiotherapy 化學 nasopharyngeal carcinoma. 三個 months after 之 head-and-neck magnetic 的 imaging (MRI) 顯示 multiple residual 殘存 nodes with 淋巴 appeared to 正子 metastases in 並無明顯 neck. However, 吸收 positron emission 了 (FDG-PET) produced 式 findings. We 廓清 a confirmatory 之 radical neck 頸部 and pathologic 結是 revealed metastatic 轉移 consistent with 的 origin. The 正子 false-negative results 呈現 obtained on 根治性 images more 超過 3 months 月 chemoradiotherapy. We 出 that functional 昏效應 need to 短 interpreted with 的 within short 後 after definitive 的 even after 需謹慎 months.
We 我們 the case 了 a 45-year-old 歲 who received 接受 chemoradiotherapy for 化學 carcinoma. Three 三個 after chemoradiotherapy, 之 magnetic resonance 的 (MRI) showed 顯示 residual lymph 殘存 with what 淋巴 to be 正子 in the 並無明顯 However, 18-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose 吸收 emission tomography 了 produced nonspecific 式 We performed 廓清 confirmatory modified 之 neck dissection; 頸部 pathologic examination 結是 metastatic carcinoma, 轉移 with nasopharyngeal 的 The dramatic 正子 results were 呈現 on FDG-PET 根治性 more than 超過 months after 月 We conclude 出 functional studies 昏效應 to be 短 with caution 的 short intervals 後 definitive chemoradiotherapy 的 after 3 需謹慎
血管 are rare 瘤 tissue tumors 相當少 develop mainly 軟 the lower 好發 retroperitoneum or 下肢 and rarely 或骨 in the 而 spleen, bone, 骨骼 or thorax. 則是 case is 的 of a 報告 man with 歲 hemangiopericytoma which 血管 treated with 的 and partial 在 of tumor. 與 was followed 切除 post operative 手術 using conventional 放射 pair technique 使用 total dose 線 63 Gy 給予 35 fractions 腫瘤 the residual 的 MRI (magnetic 經過 image) of 追 showed no 造影 or other 復 finding at 病例 10-year follow-up. 手術 patient has 線 tumor control 獲得長 surgery and 腫瘤 radiotherapy.
Hemangiopericytomas 血管 rare soft 瘤 tumors that 相當少 mainly in 軟 lower extremities, 好發 or pelvis 下肢 rarely occur 或骨 the larynx, 而 bone, meninges 骨骼 thorax. This 則是 is that 的 a 35-year-old 報告 with intracranial 歲 which was 血管 with craniotomy 的 partial removal 在 tumor. This 與 followed by 切除 operative radiotherapy 手術 conventional wedge 放射 technique with 使用 dose of 線 Gy in 給予 fractions to 腫瘤 residual tumor. 的 (magnetic resonance 經過 of brain 追 no recurrence 造影 other abnormal 復 at a 病例 follow-up. The 手術 has long-term 線 control after 獲得長 and post-operative 腫瘤
目的 To verify 探討 accuracy of 同步 ®) Respiratory 統 System (SRTS) 因 tracking the 週期性 motion during 位置 respiratory cycle 範圍 the influence 情形 treatment field; 於 to evaluate 之 clinical application 影響 the system.
Materials 方法 Methods: The 具有 was a 蹤 of the 刀 ®) stereotactic 放射 system for 移動 tracking. The 模擬 phantom was 因 in the 移動 motion experiments, 一個 can imitate 之 breathing pattern. 前 motion phantom 平台 a motion 內 and a 全系 phantom which 球型 hold verification 使用 We performed 使用 E2E CyberKnife(superscript 掃描器 dose calibration 準確度 and used 軟體 verification film, 劑量 scanner (Epson 之 1680) and 為 analysis software 分析 QA) to 補償 the clinical 補償 and treatment 條件 The mechanical 靜止 of the 移動 was tested 設備 confirmed by 補償 stages of 在 including the 執行 phantom, motion 時 and the 準確度 tracking compensation 位置 We also 自動 two experiments 的 phantom moved 了 different phases 實驗 frequency of 期中 respiratory cycle 二 test for 取 accuracy of 治療 image guide 劑量驗 on motion 肺部 The clinical 三個 verification studies 病患 the lung, 以 and prostate 膠片 patients. The 方法 dimensional dose 對 (sagittal and 中心 measured by 軸狀 MD-55 film 及 compared with ) treatment planning 測結果 by a 計畫 comparison with 差異 criteria of 條件 mm.
Result: The 為 positional error 在 the static 時間 study was 情況 mm. The 不 targeting error 運動 and without 下 SRTS tracking 差分 in the 值 cycle was 變化 mm and 情況 mm, respectively 與 The difference 次之 average targeting 僅有 between two 劑量 cycles (15/min 肝臟 20/min) was 臨床 mm (p=0.11). 與 the verification 維劑 the axial 數值 sagittal 2-D 通過 distribution of 於 three clinical 研究 they were 中 compatible. Conclusion: 同步 spatial positional 統 of SRTS 位置 less than 小 mm which 定位 the accuracy 對 of stereotatic 準確度 By using 在 SRTS to 會因 and compensate 的 the motion 執行 lesions during 減少 cycle, we 有效 significantly minimize 的 volume of 臨床 treatment field 實驗 the dose 佈 the surrounding 充分 structures. The 治療 of dosimetry 使用 also proven 時間 our clinical 易使 experiments. However, 躺 positional error 躁動 be caused 的 patient who 時 not tolerate 病患 the long 使用 hours (1.5 的 2.5 hrs).
Purpose: 目的 verify the 探討 of CyberKnife(superscript 同步 Respiratory Tracking 統 (SRTS) in 因 the tumor 週期性 during the 位置 cycle and 範圍 influence on 情形 field; and 於 evaluate the 之 application of 影響 system.
Materials and 方法 The SRTS 具有 a subsystem 蹤 the CyberKnife(superscript 刀 stereotactic radiosurgery 放射 for respiratory 移動 The motion 模擬 was used 因 the respiratory 移動 experiments, which 一個 imitate regular 之 pattern. The 前 phantom contained 平台 motion table 內 a ball-cube 全系 which can 球型 verification films. 使用 performed the 使用 CyberKnife(superscript ®) 掃描器 calibration procedure 準確度 used MD-55 軟體 film, flatbed 劑量 (Epson Expression 之 and dose 為 software (Film 分析 to evaluate 補償 clinical dosimetry 補償 treatment accuracy. 條件 mechanical accuracy 靜止 the SRTS 移動 tested and 設備 by three 補償 of studies 在 the static 執行 motion phantom 時 the motion 準確度 compensation experiments. 位置 also designed 自動 experiments with 的 moved in 了 phases and 實驗 of the 期中 cycle to 二 for the 取 of the 治療 guide system 劑量驗 motion compensation. 肺部 clinical dosimetry 三個 studies included 病患 lung, liver 以 prostate cancer 膠片 The two 方法 dose distribution 對 and axial) 中心 by the 軸狀 film was 及 with the ) planning result 測結果 a gamma 計畫 with pass 差異 of 3%/3 條件 The average 為 error for 在 static stage 時間 was 0.42±0.06 情況 The average 不 error with 運動 without the 下 tracking compensation 差分 the respiratory 值 was 0.35±0.10 變化 and 7.59±5.14 情況 respectively (p＜0.0001). 與 difference of 次之 targeting error 僅有 two respiratory 劑量 (15/min and 肝臟 was 0.12 臨床 (p=0.11). In 與 verification of 維劑 axial and 數值 2-D dose 通過 of the 於 clinical cases, 研究 were 99% 中 Conclusion: The 同步 positional error 統 SRTS was 位置 than 0.5 小 which matched 定位 accuracy requirement 對 stereotatic radiosurgery. 準確度 using the 在 to track 會因 compensate for 的 motion of 執行 during respiratory 減少 we can 有效 minimize the 的 of the 臨床 field and 實驗 dose of 佈 surrounding critical 充分 The accuracy 治療 dosimetry was 使用 proven by 時間 clinical cases 易使 However, additional 躺 error will 躁動 caused by 的 who can 時 tolerate to 病患 long treatment 使用 (1.5 to 的 hrs).
目的 To investigate 胸 prognostic factors 後 with outcome 相關 patients with 與術後輔 thymoma undergoing 線 with or 模式 adjuvant radiotherapy 本 strategies for 位侵 adjuvant radiotherapy.
Methods 腺瘤 Materials: This 均 study included 其中 patients with 接受 thymoma. All 回顧 received surgery 相關 49 patients 性別 adjuvant radiotherapy. 有 characteristics and 肌無力 related parameters 相關 analyzed to 程度 with overall 量 and disease 結果 survival.
Results: The 以及 overall survival 存活率 disease-free survival 及 was 83% 復 81.5%, respectively. 肋膜 most common 單變項 of failure 期別 pleural seeding. 程度 univariate analyses 之預 that Mosaoka 第 and extent 第 surgical resection 期 important prognostic 年 The 5-year 與 survival rate 手術 95.8 % 完全 stage Ⅱ 顯微鏡 and 71.9% 巨觀 stage Ⅲ/Ⅳ 的 (p=0.06). The 存活率 survival rate 與 87.3% for 接受 who underwent 腔 resection compared 膈 44.4% for 骨上 with microscopic 的 gross residual 小範圍 (p=0.04). Patients 周圍 extended-field or 病人 radiotherapy had 存活率 5-year overall 上 (88% versus 分別 p=0.53). In ) study, we 存活率 not identify 研究 prognostic factors 的 disease free 因子 In our 研究 the extent 程度 resection is 胸 prognostic factor 重要 invasive thymoma. 預防性 radiation field 腔 mediastinum is 結果 associated with better outcome.
Purpose: 目的 investigate the 胸 factors associated 後 outcome in 相關 with invasive 與術後輔 undergoing surgery 線 or without 模式 radiotherapy and 本 for optimal 位侵 radiotherapy.
Methods and 腺瘤 This retrospective 均 included 63 其中 with invasive 接受 All patients 回顧 surgery and 相關 patients underwent 性別 radiotherapy. Patient 有 and treatment 肌無力 parameters were 相關 to correlate 程度 overall survival 量 disease free 結果 The 5-year 以及 survival and 存活率 survival rate 及 83% and 復 respectively. The 肋膜 common site 單變項 failure is 期別 seeding. The 程度 analyses showed 之預 Mosaoka stage 第 extent of 第 resection were 期 prognostic factors. 年 5-year overall 與 rate was 手術 % in 完全 Ⅱ thymoma 顯微鏡 71.9% in 巨觀 Ⅲ/Ⅳ thymoma 的 The 5-year 存活率 rate was 與 for those 接受 underwent complete 腔 compared with 膈 for those 骨上 microscopic or 的 residual disease 小範圍 Patients receiving 周圍 or involved-field 病人 had similar 存活率 overall survival 上 versus 94.7%, 分別 In this ) we can 存活率 identify significant 研究 factors for 的 free survival.
Conclusion: 因子 our study, 研究 extent of 程度 is important 胸 factor for 重要 thymoma. Extensive 預防性 field covering 腔 is not 結果 with better outcome.
目的 To investigate 手術 outcome, especially 學及 sphincter preservation 的 local recurrence 結果 of locally 方法 rectal cancer 分析 neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy.
Materials 月 Methods: From 期間 2004 to 診斷 2006, a 的 of 32 所有 with adenocarcinoma 都 rectal cancer, 前 stage T3-4, 放射 were enrolled 治療 this retrospective 調控 All patients 劑量 neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy 的 consisted of 使用 radiotherapy (50.4 病人 and was 加上 with bolus 病人 (group A) 病人 bolus 5-FU 手術 oral UFUR 治療 B). Fourteen 週進行 were enrolled 主要 group A; 後 patients were 術 as group 報告 Operation was 細胞 4~6 weeks 肛門 The primary 的 were downstaging, 分析 complete response 復 and sphincter 無病 rate. The 自診斷 endpoints were 計算 survival (OS), 個 recurrence rate 個 and disease-free 追 (DFS).
Results: The 的 follow-up period 分期 all patients 後 44 months 無 the date 及 diagnosis, ranging 手術率 15 to 和 months. The 看 pCR and 治療 preservation rate 下降 all patients 病理 46.9%, 12.5% 存活 72.7%, respectively. 和 was no 治療 difference between 下降 A and 病理 in tumor 存活 or pCR. 為 4 patients 位達 achieved pathological 病理 response did 之癌 experience local 病人 or distant 結束 at the 局部 of this 轉移 The 4-year 的 LRR and 存活率 of all 分別 were 70.3%, 分別 and 74.5%. 組 significant difference 發率 be recorded 組 groups A 發率 B in 治療 LRR and 組有 Group B 副作用 more significant 腸胃 toxicity. Grade 副作用 or greater 相似 toxicity was 的 in both 也 Surgery related 結論 were similar 放射 both groups.
Conclusion: 道 chemoradiotherapy using 手術 with concomitant 併 based chemotherapy 可達 good results 高 sphincter preservation 保留 local control 較 locally advanced 發率 cancer.
Purpose: 目的 investigate clinical 手術 especially anal 學及 preservation and 的 recurrence rate, 結果 locally advanced 方法 cancer after 分析 chemoradiotherapy.
Materials and 月 From November 期間 to August 診斷 a total 的 32 patients 所有 adenocarcinoma of 都 cancer, clinical 前 T3-4, N0-2, 放射 enrolled in 治療 retrospective study. 調控 patients received 劑量 chemoradiotherapy which 的 of intensity-modulated 使用 (50.4 Gy) 病人 was concomitant 加上 bolus 5-FU 病人 A) or 病人 5-FU plus 手術 UFUR (group 治療 Fourteen patients 週進行 enrolled in 主要 A; 18 後 were categorized 術 group B. 報告 was performed 細胞 weeks thereafter. 肛門 primary endpoints 的 downstaging, pathological 分析 response (pCR) 復 sphincter preservation 無病 The secondary 自診斷 were overall 計算 (OS), local 個 rate (LRR), 個 disease-free survival 追 The median 的 period for 分期 patients was 後 months from 無 date of 及 ranging from 手術率 to 59 和 The downstaging, 看 and sphincter 治療 rate of 下降 patients were 病理 12.5% and 存活 respectively. There 和 no significant 治療 between group 下降 and B 病理 tumor downstaging 存活 pCR. The 為 patients who 位達 pathological complete 病理 did not 之癌 local recurrence 病人 distant metastasis 結束 the end 局部 this study. 轉移 4-year OS, 的 and DFS 存活率 all patients 分別 70.3%, 9.6% 分別 74.5%. No 組 difference could 發率 recorded between 組 A and 發率 in OS, 治療 and DFS. 組有 B had 副作用 significant hematological 腸胃 Grade 2 副作用 greater GI 相似 was similar 的 both groups. 也 related complications 結論 similar in 放射 groups.
Conclusion: Neoadjuvant 道 using IMRT 手術 concomitant 5-FU 併 chemotherapy achieved 可達 results for 高 preservation and 保留 control in 較 advanced rectal 發率
目的 To analyze 惡性 treatment results 瘤術後放療 malignant astrocytoma 放化療 radiotherapy alone 及 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 後 adjuvant chemotherapy 及 TSGH.
Methods and 年 From April 年 to December 共有 we identified 惡性 patients with 及 histologically confirmed, 神經 untreated glioblastoma 的 (GBM) or 手術 astrocytoma (AA). 後 were treated 治療 surgical resection 同步 by radiotherapy 治療 or chemoradiotherapy 空間 our hospital. 治療 total of ) Gy was 週內 in 6 使用 with 3D 的 RT (3D-CRT). 前 of planning 及 with MRI 定位 routinely used 決定 assist target 的 We used 化學 temozolomide (75 帝盟 daily up 同步 49 days) 過程 by up 為 six cycles 至少 adjuvant temozolomide 放療後化療 to 200 療程 daily for 療程 days, every 接受 days). Follow-up 為 survival times 至少 calculated from 療程 date of 和 to the 的 of last 診斷 or death. 到碼 survival (DFS) 的 overall survival 曲線 were computed 繪 Kaplan-Meier methods.
Results: 平均 median follow-up 蹤 19.1 months. 為 the time 追 analysis, 10 間 were alive, 共 patients had 存活 The median 死亡 rate was 的 months for 存活率 patients. The 月 overall survival 在 were 14% 放化療 43% in 值 alone arm 無 CCRT arm, 存活率 (p=0.002). The 這組為 progression-free survival 這組為 were 10.6% 惡性 13.9% in 的 alone and 在 arm, respectively. 放化療 In the 值 group, the 惡性 survival rates 的 8.7% and 在 in radiotherapy 這組為 arm and 值 arm, respectively. 治療 In the 復 group, the 主要 survival rates 發型態 16.3% and 病人 in radiotherapy 位 and CCRT 發生 respectively. (p=0.261). 發 failure was 所有 major cause 皆 failure, among 放射 patients, 22 病人 patients had 產生 failure. All 毒性 completed radiotherapy ( Thirty (86%) 產生 had grade 神經 CNS toxicity 接受 5 (14%) 病人 had grade 位 CNS toxicity. 化療 21 patients 沒有 received temozolomide, 產生 patients had 對 obvious side 診斷 during and 星狀 chemotherapy.
Conclusions: Addition 多 adjuvant chemotherapy 神經 temozolomide to 病人 for patients 後 newly diagnosed 接受 and GBM 放化療 statistically significant 上 benefit especially 幫助 patients of 可 with tolerable 副作用
Purpose: 目的 analyze the 惡性 results of 瘤術後放療 astrocytoma after 放化療 alone or 及 chemoradiotherapy plus 後 chemotherapy in 及 and Materials: 年 April 2002 年 December 2007, 共有 identified 35 惡性 with documented, 及 confirmed, previously 神經 glioblastoma multiforme 的 or anaplastic 手術 (AA). They 後 treated with 治療 resection followed 同步 radiotherapy alone 治療 chemoradiotherapy in 空間 hospital. A 治療 of 60 ) was given 週內 6 weeks 使用 3D conformal 的 (3D-CRT). Fusion 前 planning CT 及 MRI was 定位 used to 決定 target delineation. 的 used concomitant 化學 (75 mg/m^2 帝盟 up to 同步 days) followed 過程 up to 為 cycles of 至少 temozolomide (150 放療後化療 200 mg/m^2 療程 for five 療程 every 28 接受 Follow-up and 為 times were 至少 from the 療程 of diagnosis 和 the date 的 last contact 診斷 death. Disease-free 到碼 (DFS) and 的 survival (OS) 曲線 computed by 繪 methods.
Results: The 平均 follow-up was 蹤 months. At 為 time of 追 10 patients 間 alive, 25 共 had died. 存活 median survival 死亡 was 19.1 的 for all 存活率 The 3-year 月 survival rates 在 14% and 放化療 in radiotherapy 值 arm and 無 arm, respectively. 存活率 The 3-year 這組為 survival rates 這組為 10.6% and 惡性 in radiotherapy 的 and CCRT 在 respectively. (p=0.54). 放化療 the AA 值 the overall 惡性 rates were 的 and 67.9% 在 radiotherapy alone 這組為 and CCRT 值 respectively. (p=0.001). 治療 the GBM 復 the overall 主要 rates were 發型態 and 23.7% 病人 radiotherapy alone 位 CCRT arm, 發生 (p=0.261). In-field 發 was the 所有 cause of 皆 among 35 放射 22 (62.8%) 病人 had in-field 產生 All patients 毒性 radiotherapy courses. ( (86%) patients 產生 grade 1 神經 toxicity and 接受 (14%) patients 病人 grade 2 位 toxicity. Among 化療 patients who 沒有 temozolomide, 18 產生 had no 對 side effects 診斷 and after 星狀 Addition of 多 chemotherapy with 神經 to radiotherapy 病人 patients with 後 diagnosed AA 接受 GBM has 放化療 significant survival 上 especially for 幫助 of AA 可 tolerable toxicity.
目的 To evaluate 攝護 treatment outcome 接受 patients with 率 prostate cancer 治療 with HDR 放射 brachytherapy followed 之 EBRT.
Materials and 與 From February 年 to February 年 28 prostate 攝護 patients with 其 staging of 為 N0, M0 量 treated with 插種 interstitial brachytherapy 與 by 3-D 治療 Patient received 內 consecutive HDR-brachytherapy 高劑 2 days 組織 the brachytherapy 放射 dose of 為 Gy (15~21 ) EBRT was 高劑 2~4 weeks 組織 the HDR 後 brachytherapy with 外部 ranged from 與 Gy to 範圍 Gy.
Results: Three 有 were lost 於 the follow-up 期 and therefore 聯 excluded from 本篇 analysis. The 之年齡 age was 從 years old, 其中 a range 歲 48~82 years 攝護腺 The median ( PSA value 數為 16.3 ng/ml, ) a range ) 6.2~85.3 ng/ml; 為 the median 佈 Score was 位 with a 在 of 2~9. 治療 patients (80%) 接受 anti-androgenic hormone 治療 prior to 追 The median 間 period was 為 months (range ~ months). The 依據 year and 的 years biochemical 分別 rate was 年 and 84% 七位 according to ) definition of 級 failure. The 相關 years overall 兩位 rate was ) Seven (28%) 級 developed grade 觀察到 acute radiation 第四 side effects. 的 (8%) patients 攝護 late grade 接受 toxicity. No 率 Ⅲ or 與 Ⅳ side 治療 were observed.
Conclusion: 疾病 prostate cancer 很 with HDR 的 brachytherapy and 是 has shown 接受 result in 儘 control with 為 complication rate. 更 longer follow-up 疾病 and more 與 are required 評估 more meaningful 追 term disease 更 survival, and 病患 effect evaluation.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 攝護 outcome of 接受 with localized 率 cancer treated 治療 HDR interstitial 放射 followed by 之 and Methods: 與 February 2004 年 February 2009, 年 prostate cancer 攝護 with cancer 其 of T1~3, 為 M0 were 量 with HDR 插種 brachytherapy followed 與 3-D EBRT. 治療 received 3 內 HDR-brachytherapy in 高劑 days with 組織 brachytherapy median 放射 of 18 為 (15~21 Gy). ) was given 高劑 weeks after 組織 HDR interstitial 後 with dose 外部 from 50 與 to 70.4 範圍 Three patients 有 lost during 於 follow-up period 期 therefore were 聯 from the 本篇 The median 之年齡 was 73 從 old, with 其中 range of 歲 years old. 攝護腺 median pretreatment ( value was 數為 ng/ml, with ) range of ) ng/ml; and 為 median Gleason 佈 was 6, 位 a range 在 2~9. Twenty 治療 (80%) received 接受 hormone therapy 治療 to radiotherapy. 追 median follow-up 間 was 30 為 (range 12~66 ~ The 1 依據 and 5 的 biochemical control 分別 was 96% 年 84% respectively 七位 to Phoenix ) of biochemical 級 The 5 相關 overall survival 兩位 was 100%. ) (28%) patients 級 grade Ⅱ 觀察到 radiation associated 第四 effects. Two 的 patients had 攝護 grade Ⅱ 接受 No Gr 率 or Gr 與 side effects 治療 observed.
Conclusion: Localized 疾病 cancer treated 很 HDR interstitial 的 and EBRT 是 shown excellent 接受 in disease 儘 with well-acceptable 為 rate. However, 更 follow-up period 疾病 more patients 與 required for 評估 meaningful long 追 disease control, 更 and side 病患 evaluation.
目的 Position Emission 斷層 (PET) is 是 non-invasive technique 醫學上 in nuclear 侵襲性 which provides 技術 information using 臨 tracers. As 生理 PET data 常用 increases, random 模式 scatter coincidence 造影 increase relevantly. 敏度 cause a 與 distribution of 事件 on the 一般 and degrade 修正 accuracy of 利用 analysis. The 延遲 corrections for 修正 and scatter 事件 are achieved 利用 the delayed 散射光 technique and 然而 Scatter Simulation 法皆有 method. However, 修正 increase noise 準確性 reduce image 有效 and Methods: 造影 aim of 故 study is 蒙地 examine the 繞式 of using 阻擋 beam stopper 法 for correcting 方法 coincidence events. 使用 BS placed 模擬 the line 以及 response (LOR) 修正 two different 射束 rotating with 在 degrees absorbs 下 particular fraction 正弦 the true 遮蔽 The non-true 資訊 non-blocked at 其非 LORs by 的 stopper, can 因非 estimated. Assuming 分布 the non-true 變化 is a 可根據 slow-varying distribution, 遮蔽 whole non-true 的 can be 內 using cubic-spline 整張 from these 中非 measurements. Beam 分布 rotated (BSR) 再 the effective 結果 distance without 優點 the number 能 the stoppers. 大靈 this study, 提升 performed Monte 掃描 (MC) simulations 固定 3-D PET 法矯正 the GATE 真實 for a 分率 phantom to 卡羅非 the BSR 分率 The estimate 最 non-true event 矯正後假 in a 活度 FOV using 也 method is 實際 and is 的 to the 旋繞式 of Monte-Carlo 阻擋 The activity 不額 of region 造影 the initial 的 quantity.
Conclusion: We 利用 that the 阻擋 correction method 位置 effective and 實驗 than conventional 矯正 schemes without 蒙地 scan time. 相信 sum, the 提出 method is 正法 convenient and 適合 correction for 斷層 coincidences in 床上 PET.
Purpose: 目的 Emission Tomography 斷層 is a 是 technique used 醫學上 nuclear medicine, 侵襲性 provides physiological 技術 using molecular 臨 As 3D 生理 data acquisition 常用 random and 模式 coincidence events 造影 relevantly. They 敏度 a uniform 與 of background 事件 the image 一般 degrade the 修正 of quantitative 利用 The conventional 延遲 for random 修正 scatter coincidences 事件 achieved by 利用 delayed window 散射光 and Single 然而 Simulation (SSS) 法皆有 However, they 修正 noise and 準確性 image accuracy.
Material 有效 Methods: The 造影 of this 故 is to 蒙地 the feasibility 繞式 using a 阻擋 stopper (BS) 法 correcting non-true 方法 events. The 使用 placed on 模擬 line of 以及 (LOR) at 修正 different locations 射束 with constant 在 absorbs a 下 fraction of 正弦 true events. 遮蔽 non-true coincidence, 資訊 at the 其非 by each 的 can be 因非 Assuming that 分布 non-true radiation 變化 a spatially 可根據 distribution, the 遮蔽 non-true sinogram 的 be recovered 內 cubic-spline interpolation 整張 these local 中非 Beam stopper 分布 (BSR) reduces 再 effective sampling 結果 without increasing 優點 number of 能 stoppers. In 大靈 study, we 提升 Monte Carlo 掃描 simulations for 固定 PET with 法矯正 GATE software 真實 a cold 分率 to conduct 卡羅非 BSR method.
Result: 分率 estimate of 最 event fraction 矯正後假 a large 活度 using BSR 也 is 31.55% 實際 is close 的 the result 旋繞式 Monte-Carlo simulation. 阻擋 activity ratio 不額 region approaches 造影 initial input 的 We conclude 利用 the proposed 阻擋 method is 位置 and better 實驗 conventional correction 矯正 without increasing 蒙地 time. In 相信 the BSR 提出 is a 正法 and effective 適合 for non-true 斷層 in 3D 床上
發生 lymphoma of 攝護腺 prostate gland, 淋巴瘤 primary or 是 is rare. 繼發性 report a 非常 male who 的 diagnosed with 一位 lymphoma including 因 of the 尿滯 gland with 症狀 initial presentation 被 urinary retention. 出 rectal examination 攝護 mildly enlarged 惡性 gland with 肛門 and rubbery 光滑 He received 彈性 resection of 輕微 prostate under 在 impression of 肥大 prostatic hyperplasia. 初步 pathology found 病患 infiltration of 尿道 lymphoid cells 刮 The immunohistochemical 報告 revealed positive 腫瘤 CD20, and 之 with malignant 之 cell lymphoma. 化學 work-up found 顯示 his disease 為 disseminated many 淋巴瘤 Back mass 檢查 showed small 散 medium atypical 背部 cells diffused 切片 with immunohistochemical 浸潤 for CD3(-), 淋巴 CD10(+), CD20(+), 特殊 and Cyclin 組織 The diagnosis 顯示 follicular lymphoma 為陽性 made. The 濾 received four 病患 of chemotherapy 了 rituximab, cyclophosphamide, ( vincristine and 治療 (R-CEOP). After 腫瘤 partial response, 發 regrowing was 接受 Salvage chemotherapy 化學 by the 旁腫 (RT) to 淋巴 enlarged paraaortic 的 nodes was 由 The patient 惡化 not finish 沒能 RT course 之 of exacerbated 病患 He died 最初 the disease 的 months after 帶病
Malignant 發生 of the 攝護腺 gland, either 淋巴瘤 or secondary, 是 rare. We 繼發性 a 74-year-old 非常 who was 的 with disseminated 一位 including involvement 因 the prostate 尿滯 with the 症狀 presentation of 被 retention. Digital 出 examination revealed 攝護 enlarged prostate 惡性 with smooth 肛門 rubbery consistency. 光滑 received transurethral 彈性 of the 輕微 under the 在 of benign 肥大 hyperplasia. The 初步 found diffused 病患 of atypical 尿道 cells infiltration. 刮 immunohistochemical staining 報告 positive for 腫瘤 and consistent 之 malignant B 之 lymphoma. Systemic 化學 found that 顯示 disease has 為 many areas. 淋巴瘤 mass biopsy 檢查 small to 散 atypical lymphoid 背部 diffused infiltration 切片 immunohistochemical staining 浸潤 CD3(-), CD5(-), 淋巴 CD20(+), CD23(-), 特殊 Cyclin D1(-). 組織 diagnosis of 顯示 lymphoma was 為陽性 The patient 濾 four cycles 病患 chemotherapy with 了 cyclophosphamide, etoposide, ( and prednisone 治療 After temporarily 腫瘤 response, tumor 發 was noted. 接受 chemotherapy followed 化學 the radiotherapy 旁腫 to the 淋巴 paraaortic lymph 的 was given. 由 patient did 惡化 finish the 沒能 course because 之 exacerbated condition. 病患 died with 最初 disease 9 的 after diagnosis.
攝護 of the 發生 is predominantly 於 tumor of 大 men. We 病患 a 39-year-old 了 with prostate 症狀 who initially 發燒 as fever 男性 and on 患者 one month. 非 sonography found 發現 urinary bladder 經 and biopsy 為 cystoscopy showed 侵犯 with prostate-specific 發現 (PSA) (+). 有多處 work-up revealed 與 lymph nodes 病患 bone metastases. 後 patient was 與 with hormone 治療 and radiotherapy. 回顧關 also reviewed 輕 literatures of 腺癌 cancer in 資料 men.
Carcinoma 攝護 the prostate 發生 predominantly a 於 of older 大 We report 病患 39-year-old man 了 prostate cancer, 症狀 initially presented 發燒 fever off 男性 on for 患者 month. Renal 非 found a 發現 bladder mass, 經 biopsy under 為 showed adenocarcinoma 侵犯 prostate-specific antigen 發現 (+). Systemic 有多處 revealed multiple 與 nodes and 病患 metastases. The 後 was treated 與 hormone therapy 治療 radiotherapy. We 回顧關 reviewed the 輕 of prostate 腺癌 in young 資料
基底 cell adenocarcinoma 腺癌 is a 一個 malignant tumor 唾液腺 salivary glands. 腫瘤 entity is 名稱 new and 在 in the 世界 version of 組織 World Health 分類 (WHO) classification 版中 the salivary 將其 tumors in 的 Most of 腫瘤 tumors have 在 reported to 為 in the 惡性度 salivary glands 有 are considered 的 be low 發率 malignancy with 在 higher recurrence 一例 We report 基底 case of 腺癌 of the 全 gland, which 切除 right total 後 and postoperative 治療
Basal 基底 adenocarcinoma (BCAC) 腺癌 a rare 一個 tumor of 唾液腺 glands. The 腫瘤 is relatively 名稱 and categorized 在 the second 世界 of the 組織 Health Organization 分類 classification of 版中 salivary gland 將其 in 1991. 的 of these 腫瘤 have been 在 to occur 為 the major 惡性度 glands and 有 considered to 的 low grade 發率 with a 在 recurrence rate. 一例 report a 基底 of BCAC 腺癌 the parotid 全 which accepted 切除 total parotidectomy 後 postoperative radiotherapy.
衛生署 Bureau of 局 Promotion (BHP) 三月 an expert 會議 to draft 台灣 Cancer Database 庫 in March 會議 After several 個 meetings of 癌症 expert committee, 正式 first version 所有 TCDB with 癌症 total of 的 items was 院所 Medical Institutes 年 in the 起 accreditation of 資料 program are 個 to collect 並申報 95 items 資料 TCDB for 資料 6 major 格式 started on 根據 1, 2007.
The 學院 standards of 癌症 are based ) modified from 國家 architecture 01 簡稱 Cancer Database 修訂 of Commission 資料 Cancer. The 最大 radical modifications 是關 TCDB from 的 are the 了 therapy (RT) 標準 data items. 在 overcome the 放射 of NCDB 七個 data standards, 了 of the 相加 TCDB RT 記錄 use an 臨床 combinable code 於 complex clinical 第二次 the coming 認證 BHP accreditation 品質 cancer program 針對 added quality 的 specific for 台灣 in year 學會 the members 熟悉 the Taiwan 資料 for Therapeutic 治療 and Oncology 標準 be familiar 報告 the data 癌症 of RT 細討論 TCDB. This 庫中 introduces the 的 focusing on 及 rationale and 台灣 of its 的 data standards, 未來 helps preparing 認證 accreditation.
The 衛生署 of Health 局 (BHP) assembled 三月 expert committee 會議 draft Taiwan 台灣 Database (TCDB) 庫 March 2006. 會議 several consensus 個 of the 癌症 committee, the 正式 version of 所有 with a 癌症 of 95 的 was created. 院所 Institutes participating 年 the BHP 起 of cancer 資料 are required 個 collect these 並申報 items of 資料 for the 資料 major cancers, 格式 on Jan 根據 2007.
The data 學院 of TCDB 癌症 based and ) from the 國家 01 National 簡稱 Database (NCDB) 修訂 Commission on 資料 The most 最大 modifications of 是關 from NCDB 的 the radiation 了 (RT) registry 標準 items. To 在 the deficiency 放射 NCDB RT 七個 standards, seven 了 the 20 相加 RT items 記錄 an innovative 臨床 code for 於 clinical scenarios.
With 第二次 coming second 認證 accreditation of 品質 program with 針對 quality indicators 的 for RT 台灣 year 2011, 學會 members of 熟悉 Taiwan Society 資料 Therapeutic Radiology 治療 Oncology should 標準 familiar with 報告 data standard 癌症 RT in 細討論 This report 庫中 the TCDB, 的 on the 及 and advantages 台灣 its RT 的 standards, and 未來 preparing the 認證
目的 Nasopharyngeal malignancies, 的 than squamous 診斷 carcinoma and 是非 carcinoma, are 或 We investigated 癌 clinical manifestations 型態 treatment outcomes 探討 patients with 間 nasopharyngeal malignancies 的 a 25-year 腫瘤 and Methods: 臨床 January 1983 治療 December 2008, 方法 total of 月 patients with 年 malignancies were 共有 in our 部惡性 database. Only 病人 eligible patients 的 rare malignancies 資料 the nasopharynx 位 found. We 文章 reviewed hospital 目的 radiotherapy records, 的 imaging studies. 的 clinical courses 治療 final outcomes 影像 analyzed. Survival 這些 compared with 臨床 group of 治療 with stage 較 conventional nasopharyngeal 病人 (NPC). treated 與 concomitant chemoradiotherapy.
Results: 鼻咽癌 incidence of Ⅳ nasopharyngeal malignancies 學 only 0.33%. 病人 pathologic diagnoses 結果 three rare 鼻咽 (adenocarcinoma, mucoepidermoid 發生率 and small 診斷 carcinoma), three 上皮 and one 黏膜 The initial 癌 were similar 淋巴癌 conventional NPC. 這些 patients were 初期 with conventional 與 (undifferentiated carcinoma), 有 this was 一開始 to rhabdomyosarcoma 為 malignant lymphoma 分化 distant sites 發生 The overall 後 and progression-free 淋巴癌 of the 肌惡性 group were 組 worse than 存活率 NPC (42.9% 無惡化 74.8%, P=0.027; 鼻咽癌 vs. 71.7%, 顯著 respectively).
Conclusion: Rare 為 arising from 結論 nasopharynx consist 部惡性 several different 多種 The accurate 病理 of rare 正確 of the 病人 depends on 病理科 index of 懷疑 of pathologist. 的 treatment outcome 低 worse than 的 NPC.
Purpose: 目的 malignancies, other 的 squamous cell 診斷 and undifferentiated 是非 are rare. 或 investigated the 癌 manifestations and 型態 outcomes of 探討 with rare 間 malignancies over 的 25-year period.
Materials 腫瘤 Methods: From 臨床 1983 to 治療 2008, a 方法 of 2113 月 with nasopharyngeal 年 were registered 共有 our radiotherapy 部惡性 Only seven 病人 patients with 的 malignancies of 資料 nasopharynx were 位 We retrospectively 文章 hospital charts, 目的 records, and 的 studies. The 的 courses and 治療 outcomes were 影像 Survival was 這些 with another 臨床 of patients 治療 stage II-IVb 較 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 病人 treated by 與 chemoradiotherapy.
Results: The 鼻咽癌 of rare Ⅳ malignancies was 學 0.33%. The 病人 diagnoses were 結果 rare carcinomas 鼻咽 mucoepidermoid carcinoma, 發生率 small cell 診斷 three lymphomas 上皮 one rhabdomyosarcoma. 黏膜 initial manifestations 癌 similar to 淋巴癌 NPC. Two 這些 were misdiagnosed 初期 conventional NPC 與 carcinoma), but 有 was revised 一開始 rhabdomyosarcoma and 為 lymphoma when 分化 sites relapsed. 發生 overall survival 後 progression-free survival 淋巴癌 the study 肌惡性 were significantly 組 than conventional 存活率 (42.9% vs. 無惡化 P=0.027; 42.9% 鼻咽癌 71.7%, P=0.016, 顯著 Rare malignancies 為 from the 結論 consist of 部惡性 different pathologies. 多種 accurate diagnosis 病理 rare malignancies 正確 the nasopharynx 病人 on high 病理科 of suspicious 懷疑 pathologist. The 的 outcome is 低 than conventional 的
: The purpose : this study . to evaluate . overall survival : patients with . lymphoma arising . the nasal . and paranasal ( and to ( prognostic factors ) affect clinical . and Methods: . records of ( patients with Ⅰ sinonasal NK/T-cell Ⅰ diagnosed and Ⅱ in our Ⅱ between September ) and September ( were reviewed. ( patients were Ⅲ and 6 Ⅳ were female. Ⅳ median age ) the patients . the diagnosis . 52 years ( (range 28-75 ) old). Fourteen ) had loco-regional ( (stage Ⅰ-Ⅱ) ) 4 patients ) systemic disease . Ⅲ-Ⅳ). A . of 5 : received chemo ( (C/T) only, ( patient received ) (RT) only, . 12 patients . combination of ( and C/T.
Results: ) median follow ) period was ( months (range ) 0.4 months ) 16.0 years). . patients (66.7%) . complete response ( by image ) and then ) out of . 12 patients Ⅰ recurrent disease. Ⅰ 5-year overall Ⅱ and 2-year ( survival (DFS) ( were 55.2% : 42.2%, respectively. . front RT . in better : for 14 . with stage . disease (2-year ) RT vs. ) 83.3% vs. . P=0.031). CR ( the most ( prognostic factor . 5-year overall : (CR vs. : 83.3% vs. . P＜0.001) and ＜ DFS (CR ＜ non-CR: 48.1% ) 0%, P＜0.001). ( International Prognostic ( score was . to independently . only the : in patients . NK/T-cell lymphoma.
Conclusion: . this study, ＜ of a ) is a ) important determinant . treatment success. . analysis the . patients with : Ⅰ/Ⅱ disease, . front RT . an essential Ⅰ improvement of Ⅱ
Purpose: : purpose of : study is . evaluate the . survival of : with NK/T-cell . arising from . nasal cavity . paranasal sinus, ( to identify ( factors that ) clinical outcome.
Materials . Methods: The . of 18 ( with primary Ⅰ NK/T-cell lymphoma Ⅰ and treated Ⅱ our institution Ⅱ September 1992 ) September 2008 ( reviewed. Twelve ( were male, Ⅲ 6 patients Ⅳ female. The Ⅳ age of ) patients at . diagnosis was . years old ( 28-75 years ) Fourteen patients ) loco-regional disease ( Ⅰ-Ⅱ) and ) patients had ) disease (stage . A total . 5 patients : chemo therapy ( only, 1 ( received radiotherapy ) only, and . patients received . of RT ( C/T.
Results: The ) follow up ) was 44 ( (range from ) months to ) years). Twelve . (66.7%) achieved . response (CR) ( image study, ) then 6 ) of the . patients had Ⅰ disease. The Ⅰ overall survival Ⅱ 2-year disease-free ( (DFS) rate ( 55.2% and : respectively. Up . RT resulted . better DFS : 14 patients . stage Ⅰ/Ⅱ . (2-year DFS: ) vs. C/T: ) vs. 25%, . CR was ( most potent ( factor affecting . overall survival : vs. non-CR: : vs. 0%, . and 2-year ＜ (CR vs. ＜ 48.1% vs. ) P＜0.001). The ( Prognostic Index ( was found . independently influence . the DFS : patients with . lymphoma.
Conclusion: In . study, achievement ＜ a CR ) a particularly ) determinant of . success. In . the 14 . with stage : disease, up . RT had . essential role Ⅰ of DFS.
目的 To measure 放射 beam data 之射束 dosimetry parameters 劑量 Total Body 方法 (TBI).
Materials and 分為 The set 來 measurements consists 劑量 seven items: 托盤 ratio, tray 屏風 spoiler factors, 百分 TMR, compensator ( beam profile 與 dose verification. ( measurements were 因子 on a 剖面 MV photon 及劑 of Siemens ｡ Linac. Experimental 及劑 simulated TBI 皆 conditions with 直線 at 480 伏特 field size 光子 40×40 cm^2 設置 SAD 100 治療 and the 在 and gantry 處 set to 大小 and 270°, 平方公分 In addition, 之 1 cm 旋 screen was 角度 in front 此外 the phantom 還會 increase the 公分 dose. The 提高 five items 研究 dosimetry parameters 之劑 measured with 使用 Farmer-type ion ( an electrometer, ) parallel- plate ( chamber and 聚苯乙烯 polystyrene phantom. 等 beam profile 在 measured both 圖 films placed ( the spoiler 散射 and with 或 chamber in 壓克力 polystyrene phantom. 進行 dose verification, 比 were placed 部分 twelve different 病人 on the 發光劑 skin during 貼 treatment.
Results: The 個 ratio was 接收 very close 病人 that obtained 到 calibration conditions 是否 applying the 結果 square correction 劑量 output factor 與 for TBI 情況 conditions. The 得到 factor, spoiler 反比 and the 因子 tray-and- spoiler 之值 were 0.949, 因子 and 0.931, 因子 The discrepancy 屏風 PDD and 及 was lower 劑量 2 %. 與 compensator factor 轉換後之差 0.045 for 的 thickness up 因子 13 cm 厚度 the thickness 時 of polystyrene 而 lead was 鉛 Beam profiles ( with films 膠片 ion chamber 所量 almost the 圖 For dose 在 the discrepancies 部分 TLD and 計所量 dose were 與 to the 相比 measurement uncertainty, 結論 %.
Conclusion: A 量測 set of 皆 data and 內 parameters were 之熱 and all 結果 discrepancies seen 量 the study 及劑 TLD part), 方法 with those 且 clinically, were 結果 2 % 實際 the study 治療
Purpose: 目的 measure the 放射 data and 之射束 parameters for 劑量 Body Irradiation 方法 and Methods: 分為 set of 來 consists of 劑量 items: output 托盤 tray and 屏風 factors, PDD, 百分 compensator factor, ( profile and 與 verification. All ( were performed 因子 a 6 剖面 photon beam 及劑 Siemens Primus ｡ Experimental setup 及劑 TBI treatment 皆 with SSD 直線 480 cm, 伏特 size at 光子 cm^2 at 設置 100 cm, 治療 the collimator 在 gantry angles 處 to 45° 大小 270°, respectively. 平方公分 addition, a 之 cm spoiler 旋 was placed 角度 front of 此外 phantom to 還會 the surface 公分 The first 提高 items of 研究 parameters were 之劑 with a 使用 ion chamber, ( electrometer, a ) plate ion ( and a 聚苯乙烯 phantom. The 等 profile was 在 both with 圖 placed on ( spoiler screen 散射 with ion 或 in a 壓克力 phantom. For 進行 verification, TLDs 比 placed at 部分 different sites 病人 the patient 發光劑 during TBI 貼 The output 個 was 0.0466, 接收 close to 病人 obtained under 到 conditions after 是否 the inverse 結果 correction and 劑量 factor correction 與 TBI treatment 情況 The tray 得到 spoiler factor 反比 the combined 因子 spoiler factor 之值 0.949, 0.982 因子 0.931, respectively. 因子 discrepancy between 屏風 and TMR 及 lower than 劑量 %. The 與 factor was 轉換後之差 for polystyrene 的 up to 因子 cm and 厚度 thickness ratio 時 polystyrene to 而 was 0.511. 鉛 profiles measured ( films and 膠片 chamber were 所量 the same. 圖 dose verification, 在 discrepancies between 部分 and prescribed 計所量 were comparable 與 the intrinsic 相比 uncertainty, ±5 結論 A comprehensive 量測 of beam 皆 and dosimetry 內 were measured 之熱 all ratio 結果 seen during 量 study (except 及劑 part), consistent 方法 those applied 且 were within 結果 % indicating 實際 study viable.
目的 In radiotherapy 因腫瘤 head and 淋巴 cancer, regional 關 mode of 治療 and supraclavicular 慮 was taken 鎖骨 the irradiation 淋巴 because of 其 tumor type 前方 lymphatic drainage 預防性 in high 於 A conventional 治療 low-neck and 直線 field was 進步 regularly during 放射 Owing to 方式 remarkable progressing 單 in linear ( and treatment 取代 system, there 一等 a lot 擺位 achievement in 研究 in recent 表面 the patient 不同 technique of 之 in head 影響 neck cancer 本實驗 changed from 量計 technique to 置 technique.
Materials and 假體 Thermoluminescent dosimeters 以 were used 之 place on 中心 phantom to 電腦 the skin 計算 of head 點這兩種 neck field. 擺位 and monoisocenter 頭頸部 were performed 時 setup with 皮膚 phantom during 能 experiment. TMR 劑量 and Pinnacle 實驗 planning system 的 used to 計劃 the output 一等 unit (MU).
Results: 的 found that 劑量 neck skin 與 in mono-isocenter 中心 was calculated 皮膚 treatment planning 約 as 6% 擺位 than multi-centers 中心 when that 計算 calculated with 與 formula. The 計劃 skin doses 計劃 mono-isocenter were 之 higher than 頸部 of multi-centers 較 technique using 劑量 same calculation 的 (which is 劑量 radiotherapy planning 結論 The neck 因 doses of 或 radiotherapy planning 不同 were 8% 量 than that 利用 TMR formula 來 the same 輸出 technique (which 比 multi-centers).
Discussions: The 給予 methods and 高 SSD (source-surface 較 might cause 皮膚 different of 上 neck skin doses.
Purpose: 目的 radiotherapy of 因腫瘤 and neck 淋巴 regional lympha 關 of lower-neck 治療 supraclavicular fossa 慮 taken into 鎖骨 irradiation field 淋巴 of the 其 type and 前方 drainage always 預防性 high risk. 於 conventional anterior 治療 and supercalaviculer 直線 was performed 進步 during radiotherapy. 放射 to the 方式 progressing advances 單 linear accelerator ( treatment planning 取代 there were 一等 lot of 擺位 in radiotherapy 研究 recent decades, 表面 patient setup 不同 of radiotherapy 之 head and 影響 cancer have 本實驗 from multi-centers 量計 to mono-isocenter 置 and Methods: 假體 dosimeters (TLDs) 以 used to 之 on RT-HUMANOID 中心 to evaluate 電腦 skin dose 計算 head and 點這兩種 field. Multi-centers 擺位 monoisocenter techniques 頭頸部 performed in 時 with anthropomorphic 皮膚 during the 能 TMR formula 劑量 Pinnacle radiotherapy 實驗 system were 的 to calculate 計劃 output monitor- 一等 (MU).
Results: We 的 that the 劑量 skin doses 與 mono-isocenter technique 中心 calculated in 皮膚 planning system 約 6% higher 擺位 multi-centers technique 中心 that of 計算 with TMR 與 The neck 計劃 doses of 計劃 were 3% 之 than that 頸部 multi-centers setup 較 using the 劑量 calculation method 的 is Pinnacle 劑量 planning system). 結論 neck skin 因 of Pinnacle 或 planning system 不同 8% higher 量 that of 利用 formula using 來 same setup 輸出 (which is 比 The calculation 給予 and the 高 (source-surface distance) 較 cause the 皮膚 of the 上 skin doses.
一位 case of 女性 of left 肺 lung, cT4N2M1, 臨床 spinal cord 合 over Li 第一 a 46-year-old 脊髓 is presented. 症狀表現 only clinical 視力 was blurred 頭痛 and headache, 為 proved to 內壓 caused by 併 intracranial pressure 乳突 with bilateral 臨床 Evaluations of 多次 were performed 磁共振 repeated MRI 穿刺 brain, lumbar 眼科 and ophthalmologist 醫師 After complete 助 of the 掃描 CSF system 脊髓 MRI, the 脊髓 of spinal 診斷 compression over 第一 region was 壓迫 After the 視 of palliative 與 for the 內壓 cord compression, 第一 symptoms of 放射 vision and 治療 improved transiently. 暫 final diagnosis 九個 leptomeningeal metastasis 最終 established nine 軟腦 latter. The 轉移 as well 診斷 diagnosis is 討論
A 一位 of adenocarcinoma 女性 left upper 肺 cT4N2M1, with 臨床 cord compression 合 Li in 第一 46-year-old woman 脊髓 presented. The 症狀表現 clinical symptom 視力 blurred vision 頭痛 headache, which 為 to be 內壓 by increased 併 pressure (IICP) 乳突 bilateral papilledema. 臨床 of IICP 多次 performed including 磁共振 MRI of 穿刺 lumbar puncture 眼科 ophthalmologist consultation. 醫師 complete survey 助 the entire 掃描 system by 脊髓 the diagnosis 脊髓 spinal cord 診斷 over Li 第一 was made. 壓迫 the completion 視 palliative radiotherapy 與 the Li 內壓 compression, the 第一 of blurred 放射 and headache 治療 transiently. The 暫 diagnosis of 九個 metastasis was 最終 nine months 軟腦 The cause 轉移 well as 診斷 is discussed.
乳房 Paget's disease ( is an ( cutaneous adenocarcinoma. 的 predominantly involves 發年紀 gland-bearing areas, 歲 the vulva, 汗腺 and perianal 的 In contrast 肛門 mammary Paget's 陰 extramammary Paget's 陰部 may or 很 not be 柏哲德氏病 with internal 症狀 Initially, the 癢 is typically 細菌 dry, and 很 with pruritus. 誤診 later may 明顯 into an 性表層 crusted, ulcerated, 被 papillary lesion 濕疹 pain and 治療 Patients often 癌症 a history 的 prolonged treatment 會合 topical corticosteroid 鄰近 antifungal agents 癌症 a diagnosis 以 made by 一般 of the 預後 Extramammary Paget's 復 should be 在 suspected if 複 skin lesion 如會 to clear 等 topical steroid 要 antifungal treatment.
Many 目的 treatment modalities 切除 been reported, 病人 surgery or 上 micrographic surgery, 的 chemo-radiotherapy, topical 性 and topical 化療 modulator. The 調節 of radiotherapy 放射 generally difficult 因 ascertain because 多 of the 確切 comprised mostly 由此 individual case 以 We report 治療 case of 病 EMPD treated 並回 curative intent 外柏 and to 線 relevant literatures 文獻 treatment modality 對此 surgery as 手術外 first- choice 效果 in anogenital EMPD.
Extramammary 乳房 disease (EMPD) ( an uncommon ( adenocarcinoma. It 的 involves apocrine 發年紀 areas, especially 歲 vulva, scrotum, 汗腺 perianal areas. 的 contrast to 肛門 Paget's disease, 陰 Paget's disease 陰部 or may 很 be associated 柏哲德氏病 internal malignancy. 症狀 the lesion 癢 typically erythematous, 細菌 and raised 很 pruritus. It 誤診 may turn 明顯 an eczematoid, 性表層 ulcerated, or 被 lesion with 濕疹 and bleeding. 治療 often give 癌症 history of 的 treatment with 會合 corticosteroid and 鄰近 agents before 癌症 diagnosis is 以 by biopsy 一般 the lesion. 預後 Paget's disease 復 be highly 在 if a 複 lesion fails 如會 clear with 等 steroid and 要 treatment.
Many different 目的 modalities have 切除 reported, including 病人 or Mohs 上 surgery, radiotherapy, 的 topical chemotherapy 性 topical immune 化療 The effectiveness 調節 radiotherapy is 放射 difficult to 因 because most 多 the literatures 確切 mostly of 由此 case reports. 以 report a 治療 of genital 病 treated with 並回 intent radiotherapy 外柏 to review 線 literatures of 文獻 modality except 對此 as a 手術外 choice treatment 效果 anogenital EMPD.
又 carcinoma or 為 myoepithelioma (MME) 非常少 a very 惡性 cancer that 只 for less 所有 1% of 的 gland tumor. 在 the parotid, 可能 may also 在 from minor 支氣管 glands, bronchi 在 breast. In 案例 report we 討論 a unique 生長 of MME 病例 from the 男性 A 55 診時 old male 呼吸 initially presented 隨著聲 respiratory distress 電腦 with hoarseness. 上 tracheostomy and 不 biospy were 的 after CT 兩側 revealed a 便 cm fungiform 氣管 carinal tumor 及氣 the bilateral 並對氣 bronchus. Radiotherapy 腫瘤 given with 線 total dose 量 63 Gy 共 35 fractions 放射 the carinal 個 Good local 得到 control was 的 18 months 病患 radiotherapy, acheiving 獲得 relief and 移除 removal of tracheostomy tube.
Myopithelial 又 or malignant 為 (MME) is 非常少 very rare 惡性 that account 只 less than 所有 of salivary 的 tumor. Outside 在 parotid, MME 可能 also arise 在 minor salivary 支氣管 bronchi or 在 In this 案例 we describe 討論 unique case 生長 MME arising 病例 the carina. 男性 55 year 診時 male patient 呼吸 presented with 隨著聲 distress associated 電腦 hoarseness. Emergency 上 and bronschoscopic 不 were performed 的 CT scan 兩側 a 2 便 fungiform irregular 氣管 tumor obstructing 及氣 bilateral main 並對氣 Radiotherapy was 腫瘤 with a 線 dose of 量 Gy in 共 fractions to 放射 carinal tumor. 個 local tumor 得到 was achieved 的 months after 病患 acheiving symptomatic 獲得 and safe 移除 of tracheostomy tube.
目的 The study 立體 to investigate 治療 spatial difference ) the treatment 標靶儀 between setup 或是 the stereotactic ) box and 對 ExacTrac x-ray 中心 system in 的 treatments of 及 radiosurgery (SRS) 研究 fractionated stereotactic ) (SRT) for 分成 lesions.
Materials and 部份 Between May 假體 to October 的 22 patients 兩種 enrolled in 的 study, including 靶儀 patients each 導引 by single 系統 SRS, and 治療 other patients 定位 by SRT. 治療 patients were 何者 by dedicated 在 radiosurgery system 至 with ExacTrac 位腦瘤 guided system.
At 立體 we performed 治療 phantom test 行立體 compare the 手術 of each 位 method to 定位 isocenter, and ( to compare 病人 spatial difference 過標 these two 後 methods from 導引 data. Due 定位 the software’s 導引 treatment setup 對 be proceeded 點的 by one 值 at a 修正 either by 臨 localizer box 意義 ExacTrac image 討論 system, therefore, 實驗 phantom and 埋入 patient had 作為 treatment plans 中心 the same 儀呈現 center. We 在 to setup 在 the traditional 是 procedure first, 導引 matching the 的 center in 方向 stereotactic localizer 與 from the 與 plan, and 導引 we took 的 fixed angled 用標 radiographs to 系統 the difference 準確 this treatment 而言 and that 系統 the digital 相 radiographs of 幾近 second treatment 位準 In phantom's 符合 the setup 在 of stereotactic 點的 box with 於 is 1.1 臨床 in AP 在 and 1mm 彼此 lateral direction, 對 contrast to 值 mm in 者 and 0.4 在 in lateral 後 by ExacTrac 值微 verification system. 外 with immobilization 方向 headring had 修正 displacement error, 或 were smaller 度 1 mm 實驗 within 1 而 of rotation 在 in vertical 治療 In contrast, 位移 using maskring 均 larger displacement, 與 all of 產生 were smaller 在 3 mm 統誤 within 2 再 The setup 向量 of localizer 其他 could be 的 by the 研判 of maskring, 準確性 this factor 模具 be corrected 或 ExacTrac image 位置 system. Conclusion 而 For SRS, 系統 setup error 構造 usually required 做 be within 較 mm for 受到 dose fall-off 因素 of the 便產生 and headring 定位 meet this 差異 maskring, usually 了 in the 時 had larger 確保 error, and 的 should be 點與 into account 中 defining treatment 點 The adoption 正 image guided 配合 for double-check 在 the treatment 確性 could be 定位 in reducing 時 setup error, 影像 in the SRT treatment.
Purpose: 目的 study is 立體 investigate the 治療 difference of ) treatment center 標靶儀 setup by 或是 stereotactic localizer ) and by 對 x-ray verification 中心 in the 的 of stereotactic 及 (SRS) or 研究 stereotactic radiotherapy ) for intracranial 分成 and Methods: 部份 May 2007 假體 October 2008, 的 patients were 兩種 in this 的 including 8 靶儀 each treated 導引 single fraction 系統 and 14 治療 patients treated 定位 SRT. All 治療 were treated 何者 dedicated Novalis 在 system coupled 至 ExacTrac image 位腦瘤 system.
At first, 立體 performed head 治療 test to 行立體 the accuracy 手術 each setup 位 to predefined 定位 and then ( compare the 病人 difference between 過標 two setup 後 from patients' 導引 Due to 定位 software’s limitation, 導引 setup can 對 proceeded only 點的 one method 值 a time, 修正 by stereotactic 臨 box or 意義 image guided 討論 therefore, the 實驗 and each 埋入 had two 作為 plans of 中心 same treatment 儀呈現 We started 在 setup by 在 traditional SRS 是 first, i.e., 導引 the treatment 的 in the 方向 localizer box 與 the first 與 and then 導引 took two 的 angled oblique 用標 to check 系統 difference between 準確 treatment center 而言 that from 系統 digital reconstructed 相 of the 幾近 treatment plan.
Results: 位準 phantom's test, 符合 setup error 在 stereotactic frame 點的 with maskring 於 1.1 mm 臨床 AP direction, 在 1mm in 彼此 direction, in 對 to 0.2 值 in AP, 者 0.4 mm 在 lateral direction 後 ExacTrac x-ray 值微 system. Patients 外 immobilization using 方向 had less 修正 error, all 或 smaller than 度 mm or 實驗 1 degree 而 rotation except 在 vertical direction. 治療 contrast, immobilization 位移 maskring had 均 displacement, but 與 of them 產生 smaller than 在 mm or 統誤 2 degrees. 再 setup accuracy 向量 localizer box 其他 be affected 的 the reproducibility 研判 maskring, and 準確性 factor can 模具 corrected in 或 image guided 位置 Conclusion : 而 SRS, the 系統 error is 構造 required to 做 within 1 較 for rapid 受到 fall-off outside 因素 the target, 便產生 headring can 定位 this requirement; 差異 usually used 了 the SRT, 時 larger setup 確保 and this 的 be taken 點與 account in 中 treatment target. 點 adoption of 正 guided system 配合 double-check of 在 treatment center 確性 be beneficial 定位 reducing the 時 error, especially 影像 the SRT treatment.
目的 To study 假體 cancer risks 模式 measurements from 治療 scatter doses 強度 IMRT techniques 治療 as helical 部位 with the 照 of an 接受 Rando phantom.
Materials 並探 Methods: A 另 available Rando 之 was placed 癌病 the treatment 與 to simulate 校正 patient treatment 各 under tomotherapy. 的 calibrated TLD 於 were placed 以實際 different anatomical 治療 for the 利用 measurements. For 斷層 cancer patient, 儀作 was generated 評估 deliver the 總劑 doses for 求得 The clinical 或 is based 癌病 the ICRP-60 總體 model analysis 危險度 critical organ 體的 after evaluation 吸收 the helical-IMRT 心臟及 using 72Gy 及 prescription and 它們 criteria.
Results: Len, 的 and kidney 號報告 3.91Gy, 0.49 肺部 0.11Gy respectively, ~ were far 其他 than their 危險度 tolerance dose. 為 to the 有效 calculation from 為 Publication No.60 癌病 lung and 結論 have about 多 risks, the 斷層 for others 治療 were 0.2~0.08%. 有 whole body . and fatal 致死 probability rate 結果 about 0.52Sv 的 2.6% respectively.
Conclusion: 個 the overall 危險度 M.U. delivery 借此 tomotherapy, the 給臨床 whole body 於 is lower 後 probability of 個 malignancies induced 蹤 low dose radiation.
Purpose: 目的 study associated 假體 risks by 模式 from out-of-field 治療 doses with 強度 techniques such 治療 helical tomotherapy 部位 the use 照 an anthropomorphic 接受 phantom.
Materials and 並探 A commercially 另 Rando phantom 之 placed on 癌病 treatment couch 與 simulate the 校正 treatment delivery 各 tomotherapy. Various 的 TLD chips 於 placed at 以實際 anatomical locations 治療 the dosimetry 利用 For nasopharyngeal 斷層 patient, tomotherapy 儀作 generated to 評估 the radiation 總劑 for evaluation. 求得 clinical comparison 或 based on 癌病 ICRP-60 risk 總體 analysis of 危險度 organ doses 體的 evaluation of 吸收 helical-IMRT techniques 心臟及 72Gy dose 及 and optimization 它們 Len, heart 的 kidney received 號報告 0.49 and 肺部 respectively, which ~ far less 其他 their maximal 危險度 dose. According 為 the data 有效 from ICRP 為 No.60 the 癌病 and esophagus 結論 about 0.7~4.45% 多 the risks 斷層 others organs 治療 0.2~0.08%. The 有 body dose . fatal cancer 致死 rate recevied 結果 0.52Sv and 的 respectively.
Conclusion: Despite 個 overall higher 危險度 delivery in 借此 the overall 給臨床 body dose 於 lower risk 後 of secondary 個 induced by 蹤 dose radiation.
: To investigate : outcome of ( cystic carcinoma ( of the ) and neck . by surgery . postoperative radiotherapy.
Materials : Methods: From : 1984 to . 2007, a ( of 46 ( with ACC ) the head ) neck were . There were ( males and ( females with ) median age ( 55 years ( 16-75). The ) sites included ) salivary gland ( sinonasal region ) oral cavity ) lacrimal gland ( tongue base ( and larynx ) The major ( was overall ( (OS). The ) endpoints were ( failure-free survival ( metastasis-free survival ) and cancer-specific ) (CSS).
Results: After . median follow-up ( 157 months, ( of 46 ) had tumor ) (7 local, . regional, 2 ( 9 distant, ( local plus ) The 5-year ( of LFFS, ( OS and ) were 73.1%, ) 75.3% and ( respectively. Univariate ) revealed that ) gender, younger . early stage, . performance status, : salivary gland ( and shorter ( between operation ) radiotherapy were . prognostic factors . OS (P＜0.05). . multivariate analysis . that performance ( was the ＜ significant prognostic ＜ that affected ) survival (hazard ) 8.47; 95% . interval, 1.85-38.64; ( and cancer-specific ( (hazard ratio, ; 95% confidence ; 1.63-52.10; P= ; The treatment ) of surgery ) postoperative radiotherapy ( ACC of ; and neck ; were good ; a 5-year ; survival rate ) 75.3%. Performance . was the . important and : prognostic factor.
Purpose: : investigate treatment : of adenoid ( carcinoma (ACC) ( the head ) neck region . surgery plus . radiotherapy.
Materials and : From June : to August . a total ( 46 patients ( ACC of ) head and ) were analyzed. . were 23 ( and 23 ( with a ) age of ( years (range, ( The primary ) included major ) gland (18), ( region (14), ) cavity (8), ) gland (3), ( base (2), ( larynx (1). ) major endpoint ( overall survival ( The secondary ) were local ( survival (LFFS), ( survival (MFS) ) cancer-specific survival ) After a . follow-up of ( months, 24 ( 46 patients ) tumor relapse ) local, 1 . 2 locoregional, ( distant, 5 ( plus distant). ) 5-year rates ( LFFS, MFS, ( and CSS ) 73.1%, 74.0%, ) and 80.1%, ( Univariate analysis ) that female ) younger age, . stage, good . status, major : gland location ( shorter interval ( operation and ) were favorable . factors for . (P＜0.05). The . analysis revealed . performance status ( the only ＜ prognostic factor ＜ affected overall ) (hazard ratio, ) 95% confidence . 1.85-38.64; P=0.006) ( cancer-specific survival ( ratio, 9.23; ; confidence interval, ; P= 0.012).
Conclusion: ; treatment outcomes ) surgery plus ) radiotherapy for ( of head ; neck region ; good with ; 5-year overall ; rate of ) Performance status . the most . and independent : factor.
目的 Clinical results 顱底 of patients 患者 skull base 治療 who received 臨床 and review 此主題 literature on 獻 topic.
Materials and 與 Nine patients 對 skull base 至 who were 本院 with external 體外 radiotherapy with 其中 without surgery 接受 1984 and 之 were retrospectively 底 The median 患者 at diagnosis 性 54 years 時 (range, 4-70 年齡 old). The 歲 total tumor 歲 ranging from 總劑 to 70Gy 中位 delivered with 病患 median dose 追 60Gy. The 期 follow-up of 個 patients was 為 months (range, 月 months).
Results: Local 患者 developed in 局部 of 9 年 The local 年 rates at 控制率 and 5 年 were both 之 The overall 存活率 rates at 及 and 5 的 were 88.9% 中 63.5%, respectively, 疾病 5 deaths; 相關 deaths were 患者 treatment-related. Two 治療 had significant 明顯縮 regression after 於 The 3 歲 patients who 治療 radiotherapy at 患者 9, 4 較長 5 years 存活 relatively long 我們 survivals.
Conclusion: Our 顯示 demonstrates that 治療 radiotherapy has 改善 positive impact 瘤 local tumor 控制 of skull 鮮能治 chordoma, but 切除 or overt 腫瘤量 diseases are 疾病 cured. In 顯示 literature, stereotactic 放射 and particle 粒子 results are 良好
Purpose: 目的 results evaluation 顱底 patients with 患者 base chordoma 治療 received radiotherapy 臨床 review the 此主題 on this 獻 and Methods: 與 patients with 對 base chordoma 至 were treated 本院 external beam 體外 with or 其中 surgery between 接受 and 2002 之 retrospectively reviewed. 底 median age 患者 diagnosis was 性 years old 時 4-70 years 年齡 The prescribed 歲 tumor doses 歲 from 46 總劑 70Gy were 中位 with a 病患 dose of 追 The median 期 of living 個 was 94.2 為 (range, 25.4-245.2 月 Local failure 患者 in 4 局部 9 patients. 年 local control 年 at 3 控制率 5 years 年 both 66.7%. 之 overall survival 存活率 at 3 及 5 years 的 88.9% and 中 respectively, with 疾病 deaths; Three 相關 were disease-or 患者 Two patients 治療 significant tumor 明顯縮 after treatment. 於 3 pediatric 歲 who received 治療 at ages 患者 4 and 較長 years had 存活 long overall 我們 Our study 顯示 that conventional 治療 has a 改善 impact on 瘤 tumor control 控制 skull base 鮮能治 but unresectable 切除 overt residual 腫瘤量 are rarely 疾病 In the 顯示 stereotactic radiosurgery 放射 particle therapy 粒子 are promising.
目的 The purpose 直腸癌 this study 本院 to investigate 前 overall survival 放射 local control 後 patients with 存活率 cancer scheduled 區域 receive preoperative 分析 (CRT). We 材料 the prognostic 方法 affecting their 月 and Methods: 月 January 1999 被 August 2007, 為 patients with 病人 diagnosis of 接受 cancer treated 同步化 our institution 治療 included in 前 study. The 治療 treatment consisted 和 chemotherapy (5-Fluorouracil 治療 Leucovorin) and 範圍 radiotherapy (ranged 術前 4140 cGy 放射 5940 cGy). 之 the CRT 的 surgical intervention 都 performed in 根除 of the 手術 Surgical procedures 和 abdominoperineal resection, 我們 anterior resection, 的 Hartmann's procedure. 因子 analyzed the 整體 factors to 影響 their impact 性別 overall survival: 的 of diagnosis, 手術 clinical T 病理 N stage 手術 initial diagnosis, 腫瘤 T and 與 stage after 距離 tumor size 的 surgical resection, 中位 distance of 範圍 from anal 至 The median 個 of diagnosis ( rectal cancer 局部 60.3 years 個 (ranged from ) to 85 轉移 old). Local 蹤 occurred in 中 patients (17.1%) 是 distant metastasis 範圍 in 27 至 (38.6%). The 年 follow-up duration 年 42 months 存活率 from 3 及 114 months). 單變項 1-year, 3-year 手術 5-year overall 分期 rates were 的 52.9% and 以及 respectively. In 的 analysis, clinical 是 stage (p=0.0047), 預 N stage 而 and tumor 多 at surgical 中 (p=0.0009) were 的 significant prognostic 後 for overall 分期 In multivariate 切除 clinical T 大小 (p=0.017), pathologic 有意 stage (p=0.004) 後 tumor size 結論 surgical resection 病人 were statistically 前 prognostic factors 放射 overall survival.
Conclusion: 之 concluded that 術 pathological specimens 標本 regional lymph 淋巴 involvement in 細胞 patient receiving 存在 CRT is 整體 strongly prognostic 重要 for overall 而 Advanced clinical 術前 stage and 和 tumor (≥4cm) 切除 at surgical 大 are also 也 with poor 有意 survival. Further 後 studies which 仍然 more patients 大型 evaluate the 研究 of pathologic 我們 node status 並且 to define 適當 optimal management 方式 warranted.
Purpose: 目的 purpose of 直腸癌 study is 本院 investigate the 前 survival and 放射 control of 後 with rectal 存活率 scheduled to 區域 preoperative chemoradiotherapy 分析 We analyze 材料 prognostic factors 方法 their outcomes.
Materials 月 Methods: From 月 1999 to 被 2007, 70 為 with the 病人 of rectal 接受 treated at 同步化 institution were 治療 in this 前 The preoperative 治療 consisted of 和 (5-Fluorouracil plus 治療 and external-beam 範圍 (ranged from 術前 cGy to 放射 cGy). After 之 CRT course, 的 intervention was 都 in all 根除 the patients. 手術 procedures included 和 resection, low 我們 resection, and 的 procedure. We 因子 the following 整體 to evaluate 影響 impact on 性別 survival: age 的 diagnosis, gender, 手術 T and 病理 stage at 手術 diagnosis, pathologic 腫瘤 and N 與 after surgery, 距離 size at 的 resection, and 中位 of tumor 範圍 anal verge.
Results: 至 median age 個 diagnosis of ( cancer was 局部 years old 個 from 28 ) 85 years 轉移 Local recurrence 蹤 in 12 中 (17.1%) and 是 metastasis occurred 範圍 27 patients 至 The median 年 duration was 年 months (ranged 存活率 3 to 及 months). The 單變項 3-year and 手術 overall survival 分期 were 89.3%, 的 and 36.9%, 以及 In univariate 的 clinical T 是 (p=0.0047), pathologic 預 stage (p=0.0023), 而 tumor size 多 surgical resection 中 were statistically 的 prognostic factors 後 overall survival. 分期 multivariate analysis, 切除 T stage 大小 pathologic N 有意 (p=0.004) and 後 size at 結論 resection (p＜0.001) 病人 statistically significant 前 factors for 放射 survival.
Conclusion: We 之 that the 術 specimens with 標本 lymph node 淋巴 in the 細胞 receiving preoperative 存在 is a 整體 prognostic factor 重要 overall survival. 而 clinical T 術前 and bulky 和 (≥4cm) noted 切除 surgical resection 大 also associated 也 poor overall 有意 Further prospective 後 which enroll 仍然 patients to 大型 the impact 研究 pathologic lymph 我們 status and 並且 define the 適當 management are 方式
目的 It is 服務品 duty of 增加 medical institutes 之滿 increase the 醫療 satisfaction by 之責任 their service 質 Whether the 概念 used concept 於 service quality 放射 be applied 癌症病患 cancer patients 對 by radiotherapy 之 an issue 是 be investigated.
Materials 之議題 Methods: The 與 questionnaire incorporating 研究 five service 依 domains based 修改 the environment-adjusted 之 questionnaire and 構面 questionnaire about 滿意度 was completed 自 203 cancer 月 after finishing 月 course of 對 from Nov. 完 to Mar. 治療 The psychometric 進行 of the 調查 was performed 檢測 the collected 人口 medical-related variables 變項 analyzed for 分析 association with 質 outcomes of 滿意度 quality and 因子 The missing 量表 of each 漏答 ranged 0-1.5%. 於 psychometric test 顯示 the value 構面 Cronbach's α 值介 adequate (range: 至 for each 門檻 with excellent 同時 in the 之區別 and convergent 聚合 As regards ) sociodemographic variables, 人口 those patients 顯示 a higher 狀況 level were 服務品 to have 之 significantly better ) in the 反應性 quality domain 統計 Assurance (p=0.03) 呈現 Reliability (p=0.02). 高 the contrast, 臨床 significant correlation 不論 observed between 看診 variables of 癌症 seniority of 放射 attending physicians, 放射 stages, radiation 技術 radiation techniques, 治療 the radiation 對五個 with the 面及 of the 並無 service quality 上 and patients' 義之影響 In the 分析 analysis, we 五個 the service 面中 domains of 可靠性 Reliability, and 對 were significant 具統 correlated with 義之影響 satisfaction (R^2=0.681 ^ the model).
Conclusion: 傳統 conventional used 質 of service 是 could be 於 in cancer 治療 treated by 癌症病患 The medical 藉由 could increase 其醫療 patients’ satisfaction 之 improving their 可靠性 quality of 可 Reliability, and 病患
Purpose: 目的 is the 服務品 of the 增加 institutes to 之滿 the patients' 醫療 by improving 之責任 service quality. 質 the conventional 概念 concept of 於 quality could 放射 applied in 癌症病患 patients treated 對 radiotherapy is 之 issue to 是 investigated.
Materials and 之議題 The constructed 與 incorporating the 研究 service quality 依 based on 修改 environment-adjusted SERVQUAL 之 and the 構面 about satisfaction 滿意度 completed by 自 cancer patients 月 finishing the 月 of radiotherapy 對 Nov. 2007 完 Mar. 2008. 治療 psychometric test 進行 the questionnaire 調查 performed and 檢測 collected sociodemographic-and 人口 variables were 變項 for their 分析 with the 質 of service 滿意度 and satisfaction.
Results: 因子 missing rate 量表 each question 漏答 0-1.5%. The 於 test revealed 顯示 value of 構面 α was 值介 (range: 0.92-0.96) 至 each domain, 門檻 excellent results 同時 the discriminate 之區別 convergent validity. 聚合 regards the ) variables, only 人口 patients with 顯示 higher socioeconomic 狀況 were observed 服務品 have a 之 better expression ) the service 反應性 domain of 統計 (p=0.03) and 呈現 (p=0.02). On 高 contrast, no 臨床 correlation was 不論 between the 看診 of the 癌症 of the 放射 physicians, cancer 放射 radiation sites, 技術 techniques, or 治療 radiation doses 對五個 the outcomes 面及 the five 並無 quality domains 上 patients' satisfaction. 義之影響 the multivariate 分析 we found 五個 service quality 面中 of Responsiveness, 可靠性 and Assurance 對 significant predictors 具統 with patients' 義之影響 (R^2=0.681 in ^ model).
Conclusion: The 傳統 used concept 質 service quality 是 be applied 於 cancer patients 治療 by radiotherapy. 癌症病患 medical institutes 藉由 increase the 其醫療 satisfaction by 之 their service 可靠性 of Responsiveness, 可 and Assurance.
放射 recall dermatitis 回憶 not a 炎並 phenomenon. We 見 a case 放射 40-year-old female 反應 is a 將報 of breast 歲 She has 乳癌 in the 此 of operation, 依序 therapy, radiotherapy, 手術 then chemotherapy. 放射 swollen skin 治療 pain within 化學 radiation region 但 immediately observed 化學 completion of 結束 We have 在 the difficulty 放射 differentiate the 區域 of the 紅腫 change. After 壓痛 survey and 表現 radiation recall 針對 was diagnosed. 的 reports are 過程 and treatment 討論 making of 回顧 case is 文獻 in this 探討
Radiation 放射 dermatitis is 回憶 a common 炎並 We present 見 case of 放射 female who 反應 a victim 將報 breast cancer. 歲 has received: 乳癌 the sequence 此 operation, hormone 依序 radiotherapy, and 手術 chemotherapy. However, 放射 skin with 治療 within previous 化學 region was 但 observed after 化學 of chemotherapy. 結束 have encountered 在 difficulty to 放射 the cause 區域 the skin 紅腫 After further 壓痛 and evaluation, 表現 recall dermatitis 針對 diagnosed. Previous 的 are reviewed 過程 treatment decision 討論 of this 回顧 is discussed 文獻 this article.
目的 Trichoepithelioma is 上皮 rare skin 一種 that arises 源 hair follicles. 的 most common 好發 are in 皮 scalp, forehead, 臉部 and upper 常 and can 上 significant cosmetic 或是 functional impairment. 的 this study, 一例 report a 毛 of multiple 瘤 treated by 治療 therapy which 治療 a dramatic 報告 with a 婦女 cosmetic improvement.
Case: 許 57-year-old woman 上皮 from multiple 兩側 lesions of 上 in her 她 eyebrows for 治療 years. She 固醇 received numerous 不明 including topical 口服 and unknown 治療 use, oral 雷射 cryotherapy, dermabrasion 均 laser surgery 來 all had 次 She then 伏特 radiation therapy 射線 50Gy in 因此 fractions by 緩解 electron beams. 已 is free 沒有 tumor in 發 irradiated area 外觀 months after 上 with significant 結論 improvement.
Conclusion: Radiation 經過 should be 或是 alternative for 會 with trichoepitheliomas 或是 have failed 毛 forms of 瘤 and those 線 multiple coalesced 效果 that cause 好 cosmetic or 選擇 impairment.
Background: 目的 is a 上皮 skin tumor 一種 arises from 源 follicles. The 的 common locations 好發 in the 皮 forehead, nose 臉部 upper lip 常 can cause 上 cosmetic and 或是 impairment. In 的 study, we 一例 a case 毛 multiple trichoepitheliomas 瘤 by radiation 治療 which demonstrated 治療 dramatic response 報告 a significant 婦女 improvement.
Case: A 許 woman suffered 上皮 multiple coalesced 兩側 of trichoepitheliomas 上 her bilateral 她 for three 治療 She had 固醇 numerous treatments 不明 topical steroid 口服 unknown drugs 治療 oral antibiotics, 雷射 dermabrasion and 均 surgery which 來 had failed. 次 then received 伏特 therapy with 射線 in 20 因此 by 6-MeV 緩解 beams. She 已 free of 沒有 in the 發 area 18 外觀 after treatment 上 significant cosmetic 結論 Radiation therapy 經過 be an 或是 for patients 會 trichoepitheliomas who 或是 failed other 毛 of treatment 瘤 those with 線 coalesced lesions 效果 cause significant 好 or functional 選擇
臍尿管 adenocarcinoma is 期間 extremely rare 是 and usually 腫瘤 with poor 即使 We report 只 case of 不易 adenocarcinoma in 即使 44-year-old woman. 不好 presented painless 腺瘤 Cystoscopic examination 起初 transurethral biopsy 年 an urachal 與 After undergoing 腺瘤 partial cystectomy 治療 lymph nodes 後 the patient 線 postoperative radiation 最 The clinical 期 radiological, histopathological 復 treatment methods 情況 correlated literature 一些 discussed and 參考 here.
Urachal 臍尿管 is an 期間 rare neoplasm 是 usually associated 腫瘤 poor prognosis. 即使 report a 只 of urachal 不易 in one 即使 woman. She 不好 painless hematuria. 腺瘤 examination and 起初 biopsy showed 年 urachal tumor. 與 undergoing laparoscopic 腺瘤 cystectomy with 治療 nodes dissection, 後 patient received 線 radiation therapy. 最 clinical presentation, 期 histopathological findings, 復 methods and 情況 literature are 一些 and reviewed 參考
目的 In Taiwan, 兒童 regarding the 期 outcomes of 告 for pediatric 少 tumors are 了 rare. We 系統 an electronic 之 system (ERS) 一個 can help 庫 establish a 自西元 which consisted 至 986 cases 的 primary brain 的 in children 本 than 18 是 of age 曾 Taipei Veterans 的 Hospital from 分析 1975 to 方法 2004. In 原始 study, we 庫中 on the 童腦瘤 outcomes of 於 available patients 年 by radiotherapy.
Materials 放射 Methods: In 調閱 original cancer 治療 data, there 於 529 pediatric 系統 tumor patients 總 underwent radiotherapy 完整 January 1975 依照 May 2004. 腦瘤 after reviewing 男女 cases, only 治療 cases (70.1%) 病例 fully recorded 治療 missing data. 放射 of radiotherapy 和 these patients 放射 input into 並 newly established 疾病 The demographic ( were analyzed, 疾病 classification of ) gender distribution, 治療 case numbers 存活率 radiotherapy, age 在 treatment, dose 放射 of radiotherapy, 病人 proportion of ( receiving radiotherapy. 人數 some diseases 其次 interest, overall 性細胞 progression-free survival ; postradiotherapy failure-free ( were also 再生 by the 星狀 method.
Results: Of ; 371 patients 腫瘤 radiotherapy, treatment 髓母 medulloblastomas is ／ most common ) followed by 不 (n=59), astrocytomas 細胞瘤 anaplastic astrocytomas ) and brain 胚芽 tumors (n=29). 接受 proportions of 的 receiving radiotherapy 和 medulloblastomas, atypical 放射 tumors, astrocytomas 的 Ⅱ), anaplastic 為 glioblastomas and 細胞瘤 were 70.9%, 星狀 48.65%, 80.0%, 性細胞 and 78.6%, 等 The pooled 治療 rate of 總 diseases after ) was 43.93%. 髓母 five-year overall 無 rates of ) astrocytomas (grade 畸胎 anaplastic astrocytomas 的 germinomas were ( 71.49%, 25.34% 放射 88.94%, respectively. 無 5-year progression-free ) of medulloblastomas 月 66.46%. Additionally, 另外 patients (1.89%) 患者 from radiation-induced 放射 tumors after 一段 of radiotherapy 中位數 a period 可能 time (range, 治療 to 24 第二 median, 19.7 電子 An electronic ) system can 協助 to facilitate 腦瘤 statistical analysis 保存 rare pediatric 的 tumor data. 研究 demographic and 統計 analyses were 分析 comparable with 文獻中 of previous 相當 The database 庫 pediatric brain 運作 is worthy 相當 to provide 給未來 for further 進行
Purpose 目的 Taiwan, data 兒童 the long-term 期 of radiotherapy 告 pediatric brain 少 are still 了 We developed 系統 electronic registry 之 (ERS) that 一個 help to 庫 a database, 自西元 consisted of 至 cases of 的 brain tumors 的 children younger 本 18 years 是 age in 曾 Veterans General 的 from January 分析 to May 方法 In this 原始 we focused 庫中 the long-term 童腦瘤 of 371 於 patients treated 年 radiotherapy.
Materials and 放射 In our 調閱 cancer registry 治療 there were 於 pediatric brain 系統 patients who 總 radiotherapy between 完整 1975 and 依照 2004. However, 腦瘤 reviewing the 男女 only 371 治療 (70.1%) were 病例 recorded without 治療 data. Profiles 放射 radiotherapy for 和 patients were 放射 into our 並 established ERS. 疾病 demographic data ( analyzed, including 疾病 of tumors, ) distribution, mortality 治療 numbers after 存活率 age at 在 dose profile 放射 radiotherapy, and 病人 of patients ( radiotherapy. For 人數 diseases of 其次 overall survival, 性細胞 survival and ; failure-free survival ( also analyzed 再生 the Kaplan-Meier 星狀 Of the ; patients receiving 腫瘤 treatment for 髓母 is the ／ common (n=93), ) by germinomas 不 astrocytomas (n=36), 細胞瘤 astrocytomas (n=36) ) brain stem 胚芽 (n=29). The 接受 of patients 的 radiotherapy for 和 atypical teratoid/rhabdoid 放射 astrocytomas (grade 的 anaplastic astrocytomas, 為 and germinomas 細胞瘤 70.9%, 90.4%, 星狀 80.0%, 41.0% 性細胞 78.6%, respectively. 等 pooled mortality 治療 of all 總 after radiotherapy ) 43.93%. The 髓母 overall survival 無 of medulloblastomas, ) (grade Ⅱ), 畸胎 astrocytomas and 的 were 81.73%, ( 25.34% and 放射 respectively. The 無 progression-free survival ) medulloblastomas was 月 Additionally, seven 另外 (1.89%) suffered 患者 radiation-induced secondary 放射 after completion 一段 radiotherapy for 中位數 period of 可能 (range, 2.8 治療 24 years; 第二 19.7 years).
Conclusion: 電子 electronic registry ) can help 協助 facilitate the 腦瘤 analysis for 保存 pediatric brain 的 data. Our 研究 and survival 統計 were mostly 分析 with those 文獻中 previous studies. 相當 database of 庫 brain tumors 運作 worthy continuing 相當 provide materials 給未來 further studies.
目的 To report 我們 initial experience 調控 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 治療 in the 初步 of nasopharyngeal 與 (NPC).
Materials and 於 Between May 至 and July 共有 58 patients 鼻咽癌 definitive IMRT 佛教 NPC in 醫院 Buddhist Tzu 分院 General Hospital, 癒 Branch. There 調控 17 females 治療 41 males, 為 a median 位 of 51.5 中位 27-88). The 歲 was Stage 歲 in 3 分期 Stage Ⅱ 位 12 (21%), 第二期 Ⅲ in ( (50%), and 位 Ⅳ in 及 (24%). IMRT 位 delivered using 由多 dynamic multileaf 以動態 Thirty-one patients 執行 concomitant cisplatin 放射 5FU, and 病人 patients received 及 cisplatin. Among 學 thirty-one patients 病人 adjuvant cisplatin 接受 5-FU chemotherapy. 接受 prescribed dose 性化學 66-72 Gy 原發 the gross 轉移 volume and 節之 neck nodes, 為 Gy to 淋巴 clinically negative 之 Acute and 為 normal tissue ( were graded 副作用 to the 急性 Therapy Oncology 副作用 (RTOG) radiation 方法 scoring criteria. 控制 local control, 及 control, distant 控制 and the 存活率 survival rates 存活率 calculated using 中位 Kaplan-Meier method.
Results 期 With a 月 follow-up of 至 months (range 局部 to 41 病例 there were 位 local recurrences 發 the primary 位 Seven patients 轉移 in the 位 Seven patients 病人 distant metastases; 死亡 of these 控制 died. The 局部 local control, 淋巴 control, and 為 metastases-free rates 為 78%, 74%, 整體 85% respectively. 多 2-year overall 顯示 was 86%. 分期 11 and 影響 patents experiencing 及 and locoregional 發 only stage 強度 disease was 放射 significant predictor 併 multivariate analysis. 學 with concomitant 與 and 5FU 使用 treatment outcomes 之 to IMRT 結果 concomitant cisplatin 副作用 but this 強度 was associated 放射 more severe 個 toxicity. At 病患 months (median) 程度 IMRT, 7% 級 the patients 第 Grade 3 第 41% had 本 2, 26% 以 Grade 1 調控 2% had 治療 xerostomia.
Conclusion: Our 初步 results using 應 for treatment 較合 NPC were 同步化 Further study 治療 compare concomitant 併 and 5FU 差別 cisplatin alone 較 warranted. A 數及 case number 追 longer follow-up 時 were needed 於 confirm our 之 results.
Purpose: 目的 report our 我們 experience with 調控 radiotherapy (IMRT) 治療 the treatment 初步 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 與 and Methods: 於 May 2005 至 July 2008, 共有 patients underwent 鼻咽癌 IMRT for 佛教 in the 醫院 Tzu Chi 分院 Hospital, Taipei 癒 There were 調控 females and 治療 males, with 為 median age 位 51.5 (range 中位 The disease 歲 Stage Ⅰ 歲 3 (5%), 分期 Ⅱ in 位 (21%), Stage 第二期 in 29 ( and Stage 位 in 14 及 IMRT was 位 using a 由多 multileaf collimator. 以動態 patients received 執行 cisplatin and 放射 and seventeen 病人 received concomitant 及 Among them, 學 patients received 病人 cisplatin and 接受 chemotherapy. The 接受 dose was 性化學 Gy to 原發 gross tumor 轉移 and positive 節之 nodes, 46.8-50 為 to the 淋巴 negative neck. 之 and late 為 tissue effects ( graded according 副作用 the Radiation 急性 Oncology Group 副作用 radiation morbidity 方法 criteria. The 控制 control, local-regional 及 distant metastasis-free, 控制 the overall 存活率 rates were 存活率 using the 中位 method.
Results : 期 a median 月 of 19.3 至 (range 7 局部 41 months), 病例 were 11 位 recurrences at 發 primary site. 位 patients failed 轉移 the neck. 位 patients developed 病人 metastases; 6 死亡 these patients 控制 The 2-year 局部 control, local-regional 淋巴 and distant 為 rates were 為 74%, and 整體 respectively. The 多 overall survival 顯示 86%. With 分期 and 13 影響 experiencing local 及 locoregional failure, 發 stage of 強度 was a 放射 predictor by 併 analysis. IMRT 學 concomitant cisplatin 與 5FU had 使用 outcomes similar 之 IMRT with 結果 cisplatin alone, 副作用 this regimen 強度 associated with 放射 severe acute 個 At 19.3 病患 (median) after 程度 7% of 級 patients had 第 3 xerostomia, 第 had Grade 本 26% had 以 1 and 調控 had no 治療 Our preliminary 初步 using IMRT 應 treatment of 較合 were reported. 同步化 study to 治療 concomitant cisplatin 併 5FU with 差別 alone is 較 A larger 數及 number and 追 follow-up time 時 needed to 於 our preliminary 之
目的 Intensity-modulated radiation 鼻咽癌 (IMRT) has 調控 the new 已成 treatment of 的 cancer (NPC) 方法 terms of 良好 excellent tumor 包覆 with significant 義的 of the 的 glands. In 研究 study, we 於 to quantify 於 importance of 體重 volume shrinkage 否對 parotid gland 的 its influence 的 the dose 腮腺 of parotid 縮 among patients 於 or without 劑量 body weight 影響 and Methods: 方法 Feb. 2003 月 Oct. 2005, 月 patients with 了 were enrolled 個 this study. 顯著 patients suffered 減輕 significant body 病人 loss (＞6% 劑量 their origin 到 weight at 會 end of 再 4th week 電腦 the entire 攝影 course). A 組用 plan CT 計畫 images were 斷層 after every 第二 had received 調控 to 46.8 的 of prescribed 新 A second 另外 plan was 沒有 for the 來 treatment. However, 計畫 also created 斷層 2nd plan 情形 2nd plan) 於 the 1st 電腦 images to 我們 if no 做出 plan CT 治療 were available.
Results: 混合型 reductions of 結果 contours are 輪廓 correlated with 和 body weight 有 of the 不管 The parotid 無 decrease in 減輕 no matter 都 patients had 小 body weight 較 or not. 治療 comparing the 和 effects of 混合型 and New ” plan, there 分布 no significant 我們 differences of 在 coverage. However, 的 in the 沒有 of normal 量差 such as 在 spinal cord, 以及 and right 腮腺 glands were 新 In the 計畫 analysis, there 的 significant increase 進 spinal cord, 發現 R't parotid 體重 doses and 的 spots in 腦幹 CTV1) for 腮腺 with significant 量區 weight loss. 比例 patients without 增加 body weight 體重 there were 的 of spinal 和 and brainstem 劑量 but the 但 dose coverage 劑量 satisfactory.
Conclusions: We 是 that the 結論 of parotid 在 decreased significantly 放射 the course 過程 IMRT even 顯著 patients without 小 body weight 沒有 A 2nd 體重 CT and 於 new 2nd 調控 plan based 來 the new 第二 scan are 影像 for the 的 treatment of 需要
Background: 目的 radiation therapy 鼻咽癌 has become 調控 new promising 已成 of nasopharyngeal 的 (NPC) in 方法 of providing 良好 tumor coverage 包覆 significant sparing 義的 the parotid 的 In this 研究 we intend 於 quantify the 於 of the 體重 shrinkage of 否對 gland and 的 influence on 的 dose distribution 腮腺 parotid glands 縮 patients with 於 without significant 劑量 weight loss.
Material 影響 Methods: From 方法 2003 to 月 2005, 30 月 with NPC 了 enrolled into 個 study. 13 顯著 suffered from 減輕 body weight 病人 (＞6% of 劑量 origin body 到 at the 會 of the 再 week of 電腦 entire RT 攝影 A 2nd 組用 CT scan 計畫 were acquired 斷層 every patient 第二 received 41.4 調控 46.8 Gy 的 prescribed dose. 新 second IMRT 另外 was generated 沒有 the cone-down 來 However, we 計畫 created a 斷層 plan (Hybrid 情形 plan) for 於 1st CT 電腦 to assume 我們 no 2nd 做出 CT images 治療 available.
Results: The 混合型 of body 結果 are highly 輪廓 with the 和 weight loss 有 the patients. 不管 parotid glands 無 in size 減輕 matter the 都 had significant 小 weight loss 較 not. When 治療 the dosimetric 和 of Hybrid 混合型 New 2nd ” there were 分布 significant dosimetric 我們 of target 在 However, increases 的 the doses 沒有 normal tissue 量差 as brainstem, 在 cord, left 以及 right parotid 腮腺 were noted. 新 the subgroup 計畫 there were 的 increase of 進 cord, brainstem, 發現 parotid gland 體重 and hot 的 in PTV(subscript 腦幹 for patients 腮腺 significant body 量區 loss. For 比例 without significant 增加 weight loss, 體重 were increases 的 spinal cord 和 brainstem doses 劑量 the target 但 coverage remained 劑量 We conclude 是 the volume 結論 parotid glands 在 significantly during 放射 course of 過程 even in 顯著 without significant 小 weight loss. 沒有 2nd plan 體重 and a 於 2nd IMRT 調控 based on 來 new CT 第二 are needed 影像 the IMRT 的 of NPC.
目的 By using 日 correction, we 愈來 the dose 的 of planning 治療 volume (PTV) 主要 surrounding normal 影像 impacted by 利用 dose retrospectively. 方式 was done 若無經過 head and 位移 (H&N) cancer 體積 who were 包覆 guided by 鄰近 based on 體積 effective treatment 衝擊 of intensity 使用 radiation therapy 直線 and Methods 病人 20 patients 放射 image-guided radiotherapy 八十六 resulted in 利用 total of 以人體 paired images 配合 were analyzed 融合 software to 擺位 the correction 修正 in three 格式 followed by 治療 of a 其他 plan system. 治療 effect of 新 and normal 結果 irradiation volume 的 evaluated by 擺位 summation.
Results: The 計劃 correction shift 正常 anterior-posterior (AP), 照射率 (RL) and 根據 (CC) directions 結果 -0.4±0.9 mm, 的 mm and 為 mm, respectively. 差標 systematic and 差 errors in 與 direction were 側軸位 mm and 修正 mm, in 統誤 direction were 隨機誤 mm and 別是 mm, in 的 direction were 修正 mm and 統誤 mm. The 隨機誤 vector shift 分別 2.1±0.3 mm 病人 88% probability 向量 being less 的 3 mm.
In 平均 and H&N 是 groups, the 與 missing probability 之中 V90 (the 包含 covered by 錯 isodose curve), 與 (the volume 的 by 95% 失率 curve) and 與 (the volume 與 by 107% 體積 curve) were 的 and 0.17%, 而 and 0.39%, 的 and 0.31%, 照射率 On the 腦部 hand, in 眼睛 and H&N 的 groups, the 病人 of normal 腮腺 being irradiated 的 as follows: 結論 of left 計畫 1.18±0.81% of 除了 stem, -0.22±0.63% 建議 spinal cord, 靶 0.15±0.77% of 多加 gland, -0.09±1.16% 安全 right eye 研究所 -0.21±0.8% of 擺位 parotid gland.
Conclusion: 於 dose coverage 大約 PTV and 配合 tissue risk 技術 be kept 擺位 the acceptable 每 by adding 的 safety margin 於 by Marcel 的 Herk (2.5Σ±0.7σ) 的 along with 進而 control of 時 setup error 靶 less than 率 mm and 體積 space vector 評估 of less 可 5.2 mm.
Introduction: 目的 using image-guided 日 we analyzed 愈來 dose coverage 的 planning target 治療 (PTV) and 主要 normal tissues 影像 by radiation 利用 retrospectively. This 方式 done on 若無經過 and neck 位移 cancer patients 體積 were not 包覆 by imaging 鄰近 on the 體積 treatment results 衝擊 intensity modulated 使用 therapy (IMRT).
Material 直線 Methods : 病人 patients underwent 放射 radiotherapy (IGRT) 八十六 in a 利用 of 386 以人體 images which 配合 analyzed by 融合 to acquire 擺位 correction shifts 修正 three axis, 格式 by recalculation 治療 a treatment 其他 system. The 治療 of PTV 新 normal tissue 結果 volume were 的 by plan 擺位 The average 計劃 shift of 正常 (AP), medial-lateral 照射率 and cranio-caudal 根據 directions were 結果 mm, -0.4±1.2 的 and -0.1±0.7 為 respectively. The 差標 and random 差 in AP 與 were 0.9 側軸位 and 0.9 修正 in RL 統誤 were 0.7 隨機誤 and 0.9 別是 in SI 的 were 1.2 修正 and 1.1 統誤 The average 隨機誤 shift was 分別 mm with 病人 probability of 向量 less than 的 mm.
In brain 平均 H&N tumor 是 the PTV 與 probability of 之中 (the volume 包含 by 90% 錯 curve), V95 與 volume covered 的 95% isodose 失率 and V107 與 volume covered 與 107% isodose 體積 were 0.15% 的 0.17%, 0.37% 而 0.39%, 0.03% 的 0.31%, respectively. 照射率 the other 腦部 in brain 眼睛 H&N tumor 的 the probabilities 病人 normal tissue 腮腺 irradiated were 的 follows: 0.25±1.36% 結論 left eye, 計畫 of brain 除了 -0.22±0.63% of 建議 cord, left 靶 of parotid 多加 -0.09±1.16% of 安全 eye and 研究所 of right 擺位 gland.
Conclusion: The 於 coverage of 大約 and normal 配合 risk can 技術 kept within 擺位 acceptable range 每 adding the 的 margin recommended 於 Marcel van 的 (2.5Σ±0.7σ) mm 的 with the 進而 of the 時 error of 靶 than 3 率 and the 體積 vector shift 評估 less than 可 mm.
目的 Epidemic Kaposi's 波西 mainly invades 的 tissues. In 為 clinic, we 組織 use bolus 床上 increase the 組織 dose. To 表面 the patients 研究 epidemic Kaposi's 估個 who had 侵犯 on either 雙腳 foot or 卡 both feet 肉瘤 Gafchromic EBT 不同 was used 而 in-vivo dosimetry 不同 compare two 使用 radiotherapy methods 為 verified the 經由 doses.
Materials and 實測 In these 劑量 different treatment 藉以 we used 觀評 cm^2 size 劑量 film to 材料 the skin 分成 The first 的 treated both 方式 Two feet 貼 immersed in 平方公分 water tank 膠片 irradiated with 皮膚 MV bilateral 種為 beam. The 皆 dose of 放射 Gy was 的 in 12 併 The second 於 treated only 中 single foot, 光子 used the 對照 cradle fixation 量 In this 共 we used 第二 least 3mm 腳 Polyflex II 放射 the tissue-compensator. 的 on CT 使用 the treatment 系統 was irradiated 至少 4 MV Ⅱ beams at 補償物 different angles. 方式 total dose 個 50 Gy 的 delivered in 順形 fractions. The 光子 planning system 為 in this 量 was Philips 治療 v7.6c.
Results: In 計畫 irradiation case, 為 chose twelve 雙腳 and repeated 個量 for 5 複 The average 雙腳 dose of 平均 feet was 單腳 cGy. In 個量 foot irradiation 複 two measure 點處 were repeated 皮膚 10 days. 為 average skin 皮膚 at points 為 and B 計算 219.5±4.1 cGy 點為 219.0±5.5 cGy 比 The calculation 多 of treatment 結果 at A 其測量 B points 治療 212.7 cGy 結論 216.7 cGy 文中 The measurement 兩種 were higher 方式 the treatment 使用 system by Ⅱ and 1.1%.
Conclusions: 補償物 shown by 量量 results of 證實 study, either 使皮膚 tank or 的 II may 接受 used as 高 They can 處方劑 sufficient doses 的 the skin 給醫師 Both methods 觀評 available for 的 evaluation.
Purpose: 目的 Kaposi's sarcoma 波西 invades skin 的 In the 為 we often 組織 bolus to 床上 the surface 組織 To evaluate 表面 patients of 研究 Kaposi's sarcoma 估個 had lesions 侵犯 either single 雙腳 or on 卡 feet skins, 肉瘤 EBT film 不同 used as 而 dosimetry to 不同 two different 使用 methods and 為 the skin 經由 and Methods: 實測 these two 劑量 treatment methods, 藉以 used 2×2 觀評 size EBT 劑量 to measure 材料 skin dose. 分成 first method 的 both feet. 方式 feet were 貼 in a 平方公分 tank and 膠片 with 10 皮膚 bilateral photon 種為 The total 皆 of 36 放射 was delivered 的 12 fractions. 併 second method 於 only partial 中 foot, and 光子 the Alpha 對照 fixation system. 量 this study, 共 used at 第二 3mm thick 腳 II as 放射 tissue-compensator. Base 的 CT images, 使用 treatment site 系統 irradiated with 至少 MV photon Ⅱ at 4 補償物 angles. The 方式 dose of 個 Gy was 的 in 25 順形 The treatment 光子 system used 為 this study 量 Philips pinnacle^3 治療 In both-feet 計畫 case, we 為 twelve points 雙腳 repeated measurement 個量 5 days. 複 average skin 雙腳 of both 平均 was 313.3±15.7 單腳 In single 個量 irradiation case, 複 measure points 點處 repeated for 皮膚 days. The 為 skin dose 皮膚 points A 為 B were 計算 cGy and 點為 cGy respectively. 比 calculation results 多 treatment planning 結果 A and 其測量 points were 治療 cGy and 結論 cGy respectively. 文中 measurement results 兩種 higher than 方式 treatment planning 使用 by 3.2% Ⅱ 1.1%.
Conclusions: As 補償物 by the 量量 of this 證實 either water 使皮膚 or polyflex 的 may be 接受 as tissue-compensators. 高 can provide 處方劑 doses to 的 skin tissue. 給醫師 methods are 觀評 for follow-up 的
肺外 small cell 很少 arising from 發現 and neck 報告 extremely rare. 女性 report a 右 woman with 廣泛 cell carcinoma 切除 right external 又 canal. A 右頸部 excision surgery 她 performed. Right 了 neck lymph 的 metastasis was 治療 after operation. 藥物 underwent chemotherapy 和 6 courses 顯示 cisplatin and 結腫 The posttreatment 消失 scan of 原發 and neck 腫瘤 complete remission 發 lymphadenopathy and 她 local recurrence 接受 primary tumor. 調控 she received 治療 radiotherapy using 的 technique with 是 Gy in 淋巴 fractions to 劑量 bed and 放射 Gy in 很 fractions to 然而 lymphatics. The 在 course of 中 was completed 了 However, the 最後距 developed liver 診斷 during the 後 course and 我們 died 12 於 after the 小細胞 diagnosis. We 雖然 that although 治療 have benefit 控制 local control, 幫助 is of 治療 most importance 最 extrapulmonary small cell carcinoma.
Extrapulmonary 肺外 cell carcinoma 很少 from head 發現 neck is 報告 rare. We 女性 a 51-year-old 右 with small 廣泛 carcinoma of 切除 external auditory 又 A wide 右頸部 surgery was 她 Right side 了 lymph node 的 was found 治療 operation. She 藥物 chemotherapy with 和 courses of 顯示 and etoposide. 結腫 posttreatment CT 消失 of head 原發 neck disclosed 腫瘤 remission of 發 and no 她 recurrence of 接受 tumor. Then 調控 received local 治療 using IMRT 的 with 60 是 in 30 淋巴 to tumor 劑量 and 54 放射 in 30 很 to regional 然而 The treatment 在 of radiation 中 completed smoothly. 了 the patient 最後距 liver metastases 診斷 the radiotherapy 後 and then 我們 12 months 於 the initial 小細胞 We believe 雖然 although radiotherapy 治療 benefit for 控制 control, chemotherapy 幫助 of the 治療 importance for 最 small cell carcinoma.
卡 sarcoma is 氏 most common 是 in patients 病患者 human immunodeficiency 常 (HIV) infection 的 the form 之一 cutaneous lesion 此腫瘤 seldom involved 表現 organ except 通常 severe immune 上 situation. However, 不 clinical symptom 的 pulmonary Kaposi's 或 is not 突起 Physician easily 皮下 the diagnosis 為 other infection 在 we describe 嚴重 case who 時才會 been diagnosed 到 HIV infection. 通常 patient developed 皮膚 Kaposi's sarcoma 的 pathologically 4 之後才 later. A 發現 years old 轉移 had diagnosis 到 HIV in 的 and treated 波西 with medication 肉瘤 another hospital. 症狀 productive cough 沒有 whitish sputum 以 hyperpigmentation macules 波西 left lower 肉瘤 occurred in 其臨 2007. Opportunistic 常為 infection was 咳血 diagnosed due 呼吸 severe immune 但 situation even 症狀 there was 一般 positive finding 感染 the examination. 會表現 guided biopsy 區分 been performed 感染 in interstitial 我們 initially.
The respiratory 一例 improved after 病患 antibiotics treatment 診斷 anti-HIV medication. 後 macules over 有 leg aggravated 服藥 months later 月 treated by 有 Kaposi's sarcoma 及 left leg 下肢 diagnosed according 沈 histologic pattern. 症狀 reviewing the 診斷 lung biopsy, 性肺炎 KS of 抗生素 leg with 抗愛滋病 metastasis was 治療 diagnosed. We 肺部 review the 改善 to discuss 色素 incidence, clinical 澱 pathogenesis, diagnostic 持續 and treatments. 形成 pulmonary infection 病患 underlying pulmonary 截肢 In addition, 病理切片 lesions in 診斷 lung may 卡 subtle. Physician 氏 be alert 合 the existence 肺部 pulmonary KS 並探 opportunistic infection, 致病 in patients 診斷 had already 及 to have extrapulmonary KS.
Kaposi's 卡 is the 氏 common tumor 是 patients with 病患者 immunodeficiency virus 常 infection in 的 form of 之一 lesion and 此腫瘤 involved visceral 表現 except in 通常 immune deficiency 上 However, the 不 symptom with 的 Kaposi's sarcoma 或 not specific. 突起 easily missed 皮下 diagnosis if 為 infection coexisted.
Here 在 describe a 嚴重 who had 時才會 diagnosed with 到 infection. The 通常 developed pulmonary 皮膚 sarcoma proved 的 4 years 之後才 A 42 發現 old man 轉移 diagnosis of 到 in 2002 的 treated suboptimally 波西 medication in 肉瘤 hospital. Unfortunately, 症狀 cough with 沒有 sputum and 以 macules over 波西 lower leg 肉瘤 in April, 其臨 Opportunistic pulmonary 常為 was first 咳血 due to 呼吸 immune deficiency 但 even though 症狀 was no 一般 finding in 感染 examination. CT 會表現 biopsy had 區分 performed resulting 感染 interstitial pneumonitis 我們 respiratory symptoms 一例 after prophylactic 病患 treatment and 診斷 medication. However, 後 over his 有 aggravated 2 服藥 later and 月 by amputation. 有 sarcoma of 及 leg was 下肢 according to 沈 pattern. After 症狀 the previous 診斷 biopsy, AIDS-associated 性肺炎 of left 抗生素 with lung 抗愛滋病 was finally 治療 We also 肺部 the liturature 改善 discuss epidemiology, 色素 clinical symptoms, 澱 diagnostic methods 持續 treatments. Concomitant 形成 infection may 病患 pulmonary KS. 截肢 addition, the 病理切片 in the 診斷 may be 卡 Physician should 氏 alert of 合 existence of 肺部 KS and 並探 infection, especially 致病 patients who 診斷 already known 及 have extrapulmonary KS.
目的 Oncocytomas are 細胞瘤 rare tumors 非常 are usually 的 and typically 是 in the 一般 gland. Oncocytic 在 are even 細胞癌 uncommon, comprising 的 approximately 5% 包括 all oncocytomas. 的 a critical 嗜酸 of the 嚴謹 medical literature, 世界 a few 只有 of oncocytic 的 of submandibular 嗜酸 were found. 的 more unusual 不 the fact 的 this case, 以前 arose from 良性 previously benign 細胞瘤 We describe 一個 case of 頜 oncocytoma transforming 嗜酸 a malignancy 惡性 with regional 與 node metastases.
Patient 結轉移 Methods: A 方法 case of 罕見 year-old man 男子 malignant oncocytoma 細胞瘤 presented. The 腫瘤 was found 在 the left 下腺 gland with 淋巴 lymph node 結果 and Conclusion: 結論 carcinoma appears 似乎 arise from 良性 oncocytomas, or 細胞 also arise 可能 novo. In 原發 carcinoma of 嗜酸 head and 存在 the presence 而 distant, rather 淋巴 local lymph 最 metastasis is 的 most important 包括 indicator. Therapy 切除 of surgical 治療 and radiotherapy 治療 the efficacy 療效 radiotherapy, and 仍 are still unclear.
Purpose: 目的 are very 細胞瘤 tumors that 非常 usually benign 的 typically occur 是 the parotid 一般 Oncocytic carcinomas 在 even more 細胞癌 comprising only 的 5% of 包括 oncocytomas. In 的 critical review 嗜酸 the international 嚴謹 literature, only 世界 few cases 只有 oncocytic carcinoma 的 submandibular gland 嗜酸 found. Even 的 unusual was 不 fact in 的 case, it 以前 from a 良性 benign oncocytoma. 細胞瘤 describe this 一個 of submandibular 頜 transforming into 嗜酸 malignancy associated 惡性 regional lymph 與 metastases.
Patient and 結轉移 A rare 方法 of 51 罕見 man with 男子 oncocytoma is 細胞瘤 The tumor 腫瘤 found in 在 left submandibular 下腺 with regional 淋巴 node enlargement.
Results 結果 Conclusion: Oncocytic 結論 appears to 似乎 from benign 良性 or may 細胞 arise de 可能 In oncocytic 原發 of the 嗜酸 and neck, 存在 presence of 而 rather than 淋巴 lymph node, 最 is the 的 important prognostic 包括 Therapy consists 切除 surgical resection 治療 radiotherapy but 治療 efficacy of 療效 and chemotherapy 仍 still unclear.
目的 To define 鼻咽癌 incidence and 放射 of the 第二 primary malignancies 的 in patients 可能 nasopharyngeal cancer 因子 post radiotherapy 分析 our hospital. 第二 also analyze 後 prognosis after 後 SPM
Materials and 從 Between April 至 and April 位新 1367 patients 病患 indentified to 放射 NPC after 的 radiotherapy. Of 原發 45 patients 接受 SPM. They 治療 various treatment 單純 including surgery 放射 or without 放射 radiotherapy, concurrent 單純 or radiotherapy 放射 Radiotherapy technique 包含 conventional radiotherapy, 的 conformal radiotherapy 空間 and intensity-modulated 治療 (IMRT).
Results: The 強度 common site 治療 a SPM 最常見 the head 癌症 neck region, 頭頸癌 liver and 血癌 & lymphoma 對 decreasing order. 發生 median time 癌症 development of 為 was 94 後 The crude 生率 was 3.3%. 蹤 20-year cumulative 第二 of development 的 SPM was 在 Older patient 放射 a higher 三度 of 39.1%. 放射 incidence between 調控 who received 兩組 radiotherapy and 較 having 3DCRT 未達 IMRT is 的 significantly different ) There is 比 significant difference 單獨 survival in 第二 with or 兩組 SPM (p=0.245).
Conclusions: 未 and neck 統計 is the ( common second 頭頸癌 in NPC 接受 after radiotherapy. 後 is a 第二 to the 於 of SPM 癌症 the older 於 groups (＞50 較易 old)
Purpose: 目的 define the 鼻咽癌 and risk 放射 the second 第二 malignancies (SPM) 的 patients with 可能 cancer (NPC) 因子 radiotherapy in 分析 hospital. We 第二 analyze their 後 after the 後 and Method: 從 April 1971 至 April 2009, 位新 patients were 病患 to have 放射 after definitive 的 Of them, 原發 patients developed 接受 They received 治療 treatment strategies 單純 surgery with 放射 without adjuvant 放射 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 單純 radiotherapy alone. 放射 technique included 包含 radiotherapy, three-dimensional 的 radiotherapy (3DCRT) 空間 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 治療 The most 強度 site for 治療 SPM was 最常見 head and 癌症 region, lung, 頭頸癌 and leukemia 血癌 lymphoma in 對 order. The 發生 time to 癌症 of SPM 為 94 months. 後 crude incidence 生率 3.3%. The 蹤 cumulative rate 第二 development of 的 was 16.7%. 在 patient has 放射 higher incidence 三度 39.1%. The 放射 between patients 調控 received conventional 兩組 and those 較 3DCRT or 未達 is not 的 different (p=0.666). ) is no 比 difference for 單獨 in NPC 第二 or without 兩組 (p=0.245).
Conclusions: Head 未 neck cancer 統計 the most ( second cancer 頭頸癌 NPC patients 接受 radiotherapy. There 後 a trend 第二 the development 於 SPM in 癌症 older age 於 (＞50 years 較易
: We performed : retrospective analysis ( evaluate prognostic ( and short-term ) for patients ) prostatic adenocarcinoma . definitive intensity-modulated : (IMRT).
Material and : This study . 142 patients . underwent definitive ( at National : University Hospital : December 2003 ) December 2006. ) median dose . the clinical . volume was . Gy (range: . Gy) in . fractions of : Gy. Neoadjuvant : therapy was . to 136 ( usually starting ( to 3 ) before IMRT. ) survival outcome . estimated using . method, and ( and multivariate ) were made ) Log-rank test ( Cox regression, ( on potential ) factors for ( The median ( time was ) months. The ) overall survival . was 95.4%. . 2-year failure-free ( (FFS), biochemical ) survival (BFFS), ) distant metastasis-free ＞ (DMFS) rates ＞ the whole ( were 87.1%, ) and 97.6%, ) The 2-year ＞ and BFFS ＞ adversely influenced . T stage, . score (GS) ＞ and initial . (iPSA) serum . ＞20 ng/mL. ( 2-year DMFS ( adversely influenced . T stage, ) GS ＞7. ) analyses show ( T stage ( an independent . for BFFS . and FFS ) and that ( is an ( factor for . (p=.037). Among . 17 patients ) biochemical failure, . interval between . nadir and ( failure correlated ( with 2-year ≤ (≤6 months ≤ vs. ＞6 . 84.6%, p=.049). ＞ rate of ＞ grade 2 . (GI) and . (GU) toxicities ) 16.8% and . respectively. The . of late ( 2 GI ( GU toxicities ) 12.6% and ) respectively. Three ( (2.1%) developed ) grade 3 ) toxicities. The . of a . balloon significantly . 3 late ( toxicity (without ( it was ) vs. with, ) %, p=.046).
Conclusion: . with prostatic . undergoing definitive ≥ had T ( initial PSA, ( GS as . prognostic factors . BFFS and . T stage, ) and the ) between PSA . and biochemical . were prognostic : for DMFS.
Purpose: : performed this : analysis to ( prognostic factors ( short-term outcome ) patients with ) adenocarcinoma receiving . intensity-modulated radiotherapy : and Method: : study included . patients who . definitive IMRT ( National Taiwan : Hospital between : 2003 and ) 2006. The ) dose to . clinical target . was 78 . (range: 73.1-82.3 . in daily . of 1.91-2.11 : Neoadjuvant hormonal : was given . 136 patients, ( starting 1 ( 3 months ) IMRT. The ) outcome was . using Kaplan-Meier . and univariate ( multivariate analyses ) made with ) test and ( regression, respectively, ( potential prognostic ) for survival.
Results: ( median follow-up ( was 24.3 ) The 2-year ) survival (OS) . 95.4%. The . failure-free survival ( biochemical failure-free ) (BFFS), and ) metastasis-free survival ＞ rates for ＞ whole cohort ( 87.1%, 85.9%, ) 97.6%, respectively. ) 2-year FFS ＞ BFFS were ＞ influenced by . stage, Gleason . (GS) ＞7, ＞ initial PSA . serum level . ng/mL. The ( DMFS was ( influenced by . stage, and ) ＞7. Multivariate ) show that ( stage is ( independent factor . BFFS (p=.040), . FFS (p=.050), ) that GS ( an independent ( for DMFS . Among the . patients with ) failure, the . between PSA . and biochemical ( correlated significantly ( 2-year DMFS ≤ months 50.0% ≤ ＞6 months . p=.049). The ＞ of acute ＞ 2 gastrointestinal . and genitourinary . toxicities was ) and 14%, . The rate . late grade ( GI and ( toxicities was ) and 6.3%, ) Three patients ( developed late ) 3 GI ) The use . a rectal . significantly reduced≥grade . late GI ( (without balloon ( was 7.14% ) with, 0 ) p=.046).
Conclusion: Patients . prostatic adenocarcinoma . definitive IMRT ≥ T stage, ( PSA, and ( as significant . factors for . and FFS. . stage, GS, ) the interval ) PSA nadir . biochemical failure . prognostic factors : DMFS.
目的 This research 主要 focused on 病人 reliability of 量量 tool for 的 skin dose 以及 vivo of 床上 head-and-neck patients 頭頸痞 with radiation. 劑量 establish the 參考 of the 與 ratio of 本實驗 surface and 光劑 and this 平行 can be 以及 as references 變色 c1inical applications.
Materials 作為 Method: This 工具 adopted Harshaw 其 TLD, Markus 研究 ion chamber 區的 ISP Gafchromic 腫瘤 film as 方面 measured tool 為標 establish the ) and buildup 內縮 Target contoured 標靶 under the 與 surface, equal 邊緣 the skin 無經過 and over 靶輪廓 skin surface 表面 This research 用 establish the 劑量 of the 與 ratio of 於 surface (D0) 點切線 1 cm 往下 from skin 劑量 when D1 ) the measurement ( similar to 期望 calculated by 比值 treatment planning 實際劑 D0/D1 is 本實驗 to predict 發光 actual absolute 係 dose.
Result: In 以內 experiment the 給予 coefficient of 問呈現 was within 係 The reading 變色 and delivered 區線 were in 每個點 good linear 係 The points 以內 calibration curve 曲線 Gafchromic film 穩定 within 5% 輻射 in a 軟片 performance. In 測值 D1 of 治療 film compared 的 that calculated 在 the treatment 下 system was 時 and the 小 were all 並 5%. Thus, 為 dose ratio 表面 of the 比值 surface dose 藉由 calculated dose 皮膚 1 cm 在 from skin 方面 be used 靶輪廓 calculate the 或是 skin dose. 輪廓 measured skin 相同 for most 時 the head-and-neck 劑量 with the 能會 contoured over 之 equal to 之間 skin surface 標靶 around 85%~95% 內縮 D1; whereas 時 the target 劑量則 4 mm 會達 the skin 之 the measured 結論 dose was 實驗 67%-68% of 的 and Discussion: 輪廓 the experimental 到 the proximity 的 the target 確會 to the 病人 indeed affects 的 skin dose 可應用 from radiation 床上 D0/D1, can 頭頸癌 used as 劑量 for clinical 數據
Purpose: 目的 research was 主要 on the 病人 of measured 量量 for the 的 dose in 以及 of the 床上 patients treated 頭頸痞 radiation. To 劑量 the relationship 參考 the dose 與 of the 本實驗 and Dmax, 光劑 this data 平行 be used 以及 references for 變色 applications.
Materials and 作為 This experiment 工具 Harshaw cylindrical 其 Markus parallel 研究 chamber and 區的 Gafchromic EBT 腫瘤 as the 方面 tool to 為標 the characteristics ) buildup region. 內縮 contoured were 標靶 the skin 與 equal to 邊緣 skin surface 無經過 over the 靶輪廓 surface respectively. 表面 research will 用 the relationship 劑量 the dose 與 of the 於 (D0) and 點切線 cm depth 往下 skin (D1) 劑量 D1 of ) measurement is ( to that 期望 by the 比值 planning system. 實際劑 is expected 本實驗 predict the 發光 absolute received 係 In this 以內 the variance 給予 of TLD 問呈現 within 3%. 係 reading values 變色 delivered doses 區線 in a 每個點 linear relationship. 係 points on 以內 curve of 曲線 film were 穩定 5% and 輻射 a stable 軟片 In additiol1, 測值 of Gafchromic 治療 compared to 的 calculated by 在 treatment planning 下 was similar 時 the errors 小 all within 並 Thus, the 為 ratio (D0/D1) 表面 the measured 比值 dose and 藉由 dose with 皮膚 cm depth 在 skin could 方面 used to 靶輪廓 the approximate 或是 dose. The 輪廓 skin dose 相同 most of 時 head-and-neck patients 劑量 the target 能會 over or 之 to the 之間 surface was 標靶 85%~95% of 內縮 whereas with 時 target contoured 劑量則 mm under 會達 skin surface, 之 measured skin 結論 was around 實驗 of D1.
Conclusion 的 Discussion: From 輪廓 experimental results, 到 proximity of 的 target contour 確會 the skin 病人 affects the 的 dose received 可應用 radiation treatment. 床上 can be 頭頸癌 as references 劑量 clinical applications.
目的 A novel 開發 for radiation 照野 planning (RTP) 驗證 procedure is 包含 by integrating 影像 full size 模組 simulation module 之 computer aided 材料 registration module 是 under multimedia 技術 to assist 介面 radiation treatment 及 positioning procedure.
Materials 對位 Method: The 的 system is 證技術 by integrating 直線 virtual reality 本 3D computer 使用 interface, reverse 實境 and computer 放射 theory. The 並以 size solid 取得 objects are 數位 from CT 真實 in order 結合 provide the 攝影室 3-dimension information 影像 simulate and 放射 the difference 治療 the simulator 的 the linear 提 The advantage 驗證 using this 方便性 system is 開發 provide the 影像 for difference ) simulation patient 的 and treatment 驗證 position
Conclusion: With 建立 assistance of 真實 system, the 放射 time will 規劃 decreased without 系統 the accuracy 醫師術 the positioning. 治療 system developed 影像 this study 用途 can be 放射 useful e-learning 並可作 for c1inical 教學 and teaching.
Purpose: 目的 novel system 開發 radiation treatment 照野 (RTP) positioning 驗證 is developed 包含 integrating the 影像 size virtual 模組 module and 之 aided image 材料 module operated 是 multimedia environment 技術 assist the 介面 treatment planning 及 procedure.
Materials and 對位 The novel 的 is developed 證技術 integrating the 直線 reality technique, 本 computer image 使用 reverse engineering 實境 computer graphics 放射 The full 並以 solid virtual 取得 are reconstructed 數位 CT slides 真實 order to 結合 the real 攝影室 information to 影像 and adjust 放射 difference between 治療 simulator and 的 linear accelerator.
Results: 提 advantage of 驗證 this novel 方便性 is to 開發 the adjustment 影像 difference between ) patient position 的 treatment patient 驗證 With the 建立 of this 真實 the simulation 放射 will be 規劃 without sacrificing 系統 accuracy of 醫師術 positioning. This 治療 developed in 影像 study also 用途 be a 放射 e-learning tool 並可作 c1inical studying 教學 teaching.
在 herein reported 我們 case of 歲 woman with 罹患 cell carcinoma 最初 uterine cervix, 過去 FIGO stage 接受 She received 化學 chemoradiotherapy in 由 past. Elevated 血清 SCC-antigen level 細胞癌 noted and 提高 lymph node 攝影 was demonstrated 電腦 PET scan 顯示 abdominal CT 轉移 Salvage radiotherapy 強度 62 Gy/33 放射 intensity modulated 次 technique to 口服 para-aortic lymph 治療 and concomitant 追 capsules were 電 Residual lymph 斷 at the 正 area was 影 by follow 現 CT scan 殘 PET scan. 主 course of 淋巴腺 using 36 接受 fractions with 一次 modulated radiotherapy 放射 to the 次 lymph node 續 performed. However, 與 small residual 仍 node was 有 by follow 於 CT scan 病患 PET scan. 清除 surgery with 病理 lymph node 顯示 was done 性鱗狀 The pathology 此 metastatic squamous 經過 carcinoma.
The patient 門診 still alive 檢 local recurrence 目前 distant metastasis 復 57 months' 轉移跡 up.
We 在 reported a 我們 of 70-year-old 歲 with squamous 罹患 carcinoma of 最初 cervix, initial 過去 stage IIB. 接受 received concurrent 化學 in the 由 Elevated serum 血清 level was 細胞癌 and para-aortic 提高 node metastasis 攝影 demonstrated by 電腦 scan and 顯示 CT scan. 轉移 radiotherapy with 強度 Gy/33 fractions, 放射 modulated radiotherapy 次 to the 口服 lymph node 治療 concomitant UFUR 追 were prescribed. 電 lymph node 斷 the para-aortic 正 was noted 影 follow up 現 scan and 殘 scan. Another 主 of radiotherapy 淋巴腺 36 Gy/20 接受 with intensity 一次 radiotherapy technique 放射 the residual 次 node was 續 However, a 與 residual lymph 仍 was identified 有 follow up 於 scan and 病患 scan. Salvage 清除 with para-aortic 病理 node dissection 顯示 done later. 性鱗狀 pathology showed 此 squamous cell 經過 patient is 門診 alive without 檢 recurrence or 目前 metastasis at 復 months' follow 轉移跡
食道癌 detection of 診斷 cancer and 技術 in therapeutic 了 increase the 的 of esophageal 胃作 patients; therefore, 之續 gastric tube 將成 may become 之 special issue 我們 oncologists. We 病人 a case 切除 esophageal cancer 胃作 esophagectomy and 期 tube reconstruction 後 long-term remission 個 developed a 食道 cancer in 胃 gastric tube 是 intervention is 治療 first priority 早期 of treatment, 內視鏡 endoscopic mucosal 術 (EMR) for 預後的 cancer might 放射 in good 對 Radiotherapy should 拒絕 considered for 或 patients or 的 an adjuvant 考慮 after surgery.
Early 食道癌 of esophageal 診斷 and advance 技術 therapeutic techniques 了 the survival 的 esophageal cancer 胃作 therefore, reconstructed 之續 tube cancer 將成 become a 之 issue for 我們 We present 病人 case of 切除 cancer after 胃作 and gastric 期 reconstruction with 後 remission who 個 a second 食道 in reconstructed 胃 tube Surgical 是 is the 治療 priority choice 早期 treatment, and 內視鏡 mucosal resection 術 for early 預後的 might result 放射 good prognosis. 對 should be 拒絕 for inoperable 或 or as 的 adjuvant mode 考慮 surgery.
十二 cell carcinoma 之 the duodenum 是 an extremely 的 disease with 極差 prognosis. We 後 a 54-year-old 一位 who was 因 with small 腸胃 carcinoma in 與黃疸 duodenum with 診斷 initial presentation 指腸 gastrointestinal bleeding 細胞癌 jaundice. Abdominal 斷層 tomography (CT) 在 an ill-defined 的 over the 有 part of 界線 and the 腫塊 from endoscopic 切片 demonstrated undifferentiated 學檢查 She received 分化 operation with 接受 lymph nodes 及 dissection and 摘除 pathology showed 報告 cell carcinoma 手術 clear surgical 未有 Regional LNs 但 as well 則 by cancer 侵犯 Postoperative CT 影像 recurrent mass 復 previous surgical 腫瘤 She was 病患 to receive 補救性 concurrent chemoradiation 放射 control her 治療 but treatment 骨髓 inadequate bone 造成 function hindered 完成 to complete 放射 full radiation 電腦 Although CT 顯示 good salvage 補救 tumor enlarged 腫瘤 soon and 長 patient still 病患 with the 最初 11 months 的 initial diagnosis.
Small 十二 carcinoma of 之 duodenum is 是 extremely rare 的 with grave 極差 We report 後 54-year-old female 一位 was diagnosed 因 small cell 腸胃 in the 與黃疸 with the 診斷 presentation of 指腸 bleeding and 細胞癌 Abdominal computed 斷層 (CT) disclosed 在 ill-defined mass 的 the second 有 of duodenum 界線 the histology 腫塊 endoscopic biopsy 切片 undifferentiated carcinoma. 學檢查 received Whipple 分化 with regional 接受 nodes (LNs) 及 and the 摘除 showed small 報告 carcinoma with 手術 surgical margins. 未有 LNs were 但 well involved 則 cancer cells. 侵犯 CT revealed 影像 mass at 復 surgical bed. 腫瘤 was planned 病患 receive salvage 補救性 chemoradiation to 放射 her disease, 治療 treatment induced 骨髓 bone marrow 造成 hindered patient 完成 complete her 放射 radiation course. 電腦 CT demonstrated 顯示 salvage result, 補救 enlarged again 腫瘤 and the 長 still died 病患 the disease 最初 months after 的 diagnosis.
腺樣 cystic carcinoma 是 is a 的 malignant tumor, 三分之一 one third 源自 half of 它 arises from 狀 salivary glands. 表現 usually shows 緩慢 asymptomatic c1inical 的 unique slow-growing 以及 relentless pattern 高 high incidence 侵犯 perineural invasion 但 lymph nodes 轉移則 is seldom 遠端 Distant metastasis 在 occur without 有 of locoregional 的 more than 距 decade after 超過 treatment. Although 才 metastases to 雖然 liver and 到 develop frequently, 以及 to kidney 到 uncommon. Only 只有 small number 源自 patients with 腮腺 metastasize to 耳道 from the 的 parotid gland, 狀癌 lacrimal gland, 腎臟 canal, and 被 palate have 我們 reported. To 文獻上 knowledge, renal 源自 from a 底 floor origin 囊 not been 到 in the 案例 We report 報告 68-year-old male 歲 who presented 在手 metastatic adenoid 口腔 carcinoma to 狀癌 right kidney 後 years after 轉移 treatment of 的 of the 的 floor.
Adenoid 腺樣 carcinoma (ACC) 是 a rare 的 tumor, and 三分之一 third to 源自 of which 它 from the 狀 glands. It 表現 shows remarkably 緩慢 c1inical course, 的 slow-growing but 以及 pattern and 高 incidence of 侵犯 invasion whereas 但 nodes metastasis 轉移則 seldom seen. 遠端 metastasis can 在 without evidence 有 locoregional failure 的 than a 距 after initial 超過 Although distant 才 to lung, 雖然 and bone 到 frequently, metastasize 以及 kidney is 到 Only a 只有 number of 源自 with ACC 腮腺 to kidney 耳道 the breast, 的 gland, lung, 狀癌 gland, auditory 腎臟 and hard 被 have been 我們 To our 文獻上 renal involvement 源自 a mouth 底 origin has 囊 been reported 到 the literature. 案例 report a 報告 male patient 歲 presented as 在手 adenoid cystic 口腔 to his 狀癌 kidney 20 後 after surgical 轉移 of ACC 的 the mouth 的
目的 The aim 的 this study 分析 to determine 侵襲性 preoperative short 病患 radiotherapy (SCRT) 放射 long course 長 (CCRT) offers 放射 results in 就 of the 腫瘤 tumor response 肛門括 sphincter preservation 而言 patients with 的 advanced (stage 與 rectal cancer.
Materials 西元 Methods: Between 至 2003 and 期間 2008, 88 直腸癌 with rectal 接受 (clinical staged 短程 received either 合 or CCRT 性手術 enrolled. In 同步化 SCRT group, 治療 received pre-operative 劑量 Gy with 劑量 surgery. In 兩個 CCRT group, 和 received a 延遲性 dose of 在 Gy (1.8 直腸癌 per fraction) 中 with two 術前 of 5-fluorouracil 個 leucovorin followed 同步化 delayed surgery.
Results: 治療 the 88 都 38 received 手術 and 50 乾淨 CCRT. All 分別 received curative 肛門括 A R0 保留 was performed 分別 97% and 接受 of patients 放射 SCRT and 病患 respectively. Sphincter 術前 was achieved 治療 100% and 有 of patients 的 SCRT and 腫瘤 respectively. A . tumor response 蹤 was observed 的 the CCRT 數 (downstage 40%) 在 compared with 期 group (downstaging 病患 With a 有 follow-up time 發 19 months, ( failure developed 遠端 6 of 整體 (7%) and 兩個 metastases occurred 並沒有 16 of 的 (18%). The ) overall survival 存活率 are comparable 術前 these two 治療 (OS: SCRT-96.0% 比 CCRT-86.9%, p=0.48). 同步化 terms of 治療 survival (DFS), 有 in the 的 group have 存活率 significant better ) DFS as 性 with CCRT 約 (DFS: SCRT-82.4% 而言 CCRT-62.4%, p=0.06).
Conclusion: 第 SCRT and 直腸癌 are equally 短程 in terms 和術 the resectability 學 sphincter preservation 提供 stage II-III 的 cancer. A 術前 tumor response 治療 and complete 高 response) was 反應 in the 治療 group. The 於 term results 的 overall tumor 腫瘤 and survivals 效果 these two 更長 still need 蹤 follow-up time 了解 disclose.
Purpose: 目的 aim of 的 study is 分析 determine whether 侵襲性 short course 病患 (SCRT) or 放射 course chemoradiotherapy 長 offers similar 放射 in terms 就 the resectability, 腫瘤 response and 肛門括 preservation in 而言 with locally 的 (stage II-III) 與 cancer.
Materials and 西元 Between December 至 and August 期間 88 patients 直腸癌 rectal adenocarcinoma 接受 staged T3-4N0-2M0) 短程 either SCRT 合 CCRT were 性手術 In the 同步化 group, patients 治療 pre-operative 5×5 劑量 with immediate 劑量 In the 兩個 group, patients 和 a total 延遲性 of 50.4 在 (1.8 Gy 直腸癌 fraction) concomitantly 中 two courses 術前 5-fluorouracil and 個 followed by 同步化 surgery.
Results: Among 治療 88 patients, 都 received SCRT 手術 50 received 乾淨 All patients 分別 curative surgery. 肛門括 R0 resection 保留 performed in 分別 and 98% 接受 patients received 放射 and CCRT 病患 Sphincter preservation 術前 achieved in 治療 and 98% 有 patients received 的 and CCRT 腫瘤 A higher . response rate 蹤 observed in 的 CCRT group 數 40%) as 在 with SCRT 期 (downstaging 29%). 病患 a median 有 time of 發 months, local ( developed in 遠端 of 88 整體 and distant 兩個 occurred in 並沒有 of 88 的 The 2-year ) survival (OS) 存活率 comparable between 術前 two groups 治療 SCRT-96.0% vs. 比 p=0.48). In 同步化 of disease-free 治療 (DFS), patients 有 the SCRT 的 have borderline 存活率 better 2-year ) as compared 性 CCRT group 約 SCRT-82.4% vs. 而言 p=0.06).
Conclusion: Pre-operative 第 and CCRT 直腸癌 equally effective 短程 terms of 和術 resectability and 學 preservation in 提供 II-III rectal 的 A higher 術前 response (downstaging 治療 complete tumor 高 was noted 反應 the CCRT 治療 The long 於 results of 的 tumor control 腫瘤 survivals between 效果 two groups 更長 need longer 蹤 time to 了解
: To investigate : efficacy of : beam radiation ( (EBRT) for ( carcinoma (HCC) ) hepatic hilum ) vein with ( without bile ( involvement and ( bilirubin level ) mg/dl).
Materials and ) Between May ( and August ( 41 HCC ) with hepatic ) involvement and ) bilirubin level ( EBRT were ( reviewed. The ＞ dose was ＞ Gy in ) fractions and ) target volume ) focused on . tumor involved . hilum. All : had bilirubin : 2 weeks . EBRT and . month after . The decreased . (De-Bil) group . patients whose . after EBRT . lower than ( before EBRT, ( the patients ( increased bilirubin ) group had ) after EBRT ( to or ( than before. ) survival times ) analyzed by ) and Cox . analysis.
Results: The . was decreased . EBRT in . of patients. : all clinical : there were : significant differences . the De-Bil . In-Bil groups . the chi-square . The median ( was 4.4 ( in the ( group and ＜ month in ＜ In-Bil group, ) (p＜0.001). The ) group had . better survival . the In-Bil . according to ( class, American ( Committee on ) (AJCC) stage, ) stage, Cancer ( the Liver ( Program (CLIP) ( and Japan ) Staging (JIS) ) In multivariate ( the bilirubin ( was the ) significant factor ) with survival ) 34.314, p＜0.001). . treatment response . by follow-up ( the De-Bil ( had better : than the : group in : patients.
Conclusion: Decrease ＜ bilirubin level ＜ EBRT indicates ) better survival ) is related . a better . in image . Local EBRT . HCC invading . hilum shows : survival in : responsive patients.
Purpose: : investigate the : of external : radiation therapy ( for hepatocellular ( (HCC) with ) hilum (portal ) with or ( bile duct) ( and high ( level (＞3 ) and Methods: ) May 2001 ( August 2007, ( HCC patients ) hepatic hilum ) and high ) level before ( were retrospectively ( The radiation ＞ was 24 ＞ in 5 ) and the ) volume was ) on the . involved hepatic . All patients : bilirubin data : weeks before . and 1 . after EBRT. . decreased bilirubin . group included . whose bilirubin . EBRT was . than bilirubin ( EBRT, and ( patients in ( bilirubin (In-Bil) ) had bilirubin ) EBRT equal ( or higher ( before. The ) times were ) by Kaplan-Meier ) Cox regression . The bilirubin . decreased after . in 48.8% . patients. In : clinical features, : were no : differences between . De-Bil and . groups by . chi-square test. . median survival ( 4.4 months ( the De-Bil ( and 1.0 ＜ in the ＜ group, respectively ) The De-Bil ) had significantly . survival than . In-Bil group . to Child-Pugh ( American Joint ( on Cancer ) stage, Okuda ) Cancer of ( Liver Italian ( (CLIP) score, ( Japan Integrated ) (JIS) score. ) multivariate analysis, ( bilirubin change ( the most ) factor associated ) survival (HR: ) p＜0.001). In . response evaluation . follow-up images, ( De-Bil group ( better response : the In-Bil : in available : Decrease of ＜ level after ＜ indicates a ) survival and ) related to . better response . image study. . EBRT to . invading hepatic . shows prolonged : in radiation : patients.
: To evaluate : of different . weighting in . radiotherapy on : volume in . with gynecologic . and Methods: ( gynecological patients ( enrolled in ) study from . 2004 to . 2005. Computed-tomography ( were performed ( the small ) was outlined . by the . Treatment plans . non-equal weighted . technique (AP/ . 20%/20% and ( 30%/30%) were ( and the ) histograms for ) bowel were . with equal : 4-field technique. : was defined ( the volume ( isodose curve ＜ equal and ) weighting technique. ) was defined . the ratio . D50 to ( volume of ＜ weighting technique. ＜ tried to ) D50 or ) with age ( body mass ＜ (BMI) with ＜ and multiple ) regression.
Results: The ) weighting technique . maximum small-bowel ( reduction at ( isodose level ＜ D50 was ＜ with age ) p＜0.001) and . (R=0.610, p＜0.001). . was correlated ( BMI (R=0.726, ( On multiple ＜ regression, age ) and BMI ) were independent ( of D50. ( (p＜0.001) was ＜ only independent ) of D50R.
Conclusion: ) plans using . treatment plans . smaller weighting ( the antero-posterior ＜ can reduce ＜ volume in ) with gynecologic ) especially in . with high :
Purpose: : evaluate effect : different beam . in 4-field . on small-bowel : in patients . gynecologic malignancies.
Material . Methods: Thirty ( patients were ( in this ) from August . to September . Computed-tomography (CT)-simulations ( performed and ( small bowel ) outlined manually . the physician. . plans with . weighted 4-field . (AP/ PA . and R/L ( were done ( the dose-volume ) for small ) were compared . equal weighted : technique. D50 : defined as ( volume difference ( curve between ＜ and non-equal ) technique. D50R ) defined as . ratio of . to small-bowel ( of equal ＜ technique. We ＜ to correlated ) or D50R ) age and ( mass index ＜ with correlation ＜ multiple linear ) The non-equal ) technique achieved . small-bowel volume ( at 50% ( level (p＜0.001). ＜ was correlated ＜ age (R=0.623, ) and BMI . p＜0.001). D50R . correlated with ( (R=0.726, p＜0.001). ( multiple linear ＜ age (p＜0.001) ) BMI (p＜0.001) ) independent factors ( D50. BMI ( was the ＜ independent factor ) D50R.
Conclusion: Treatment ) using non-equal-weighted . plans with . weighting in ( antero-posterior direction ＜ reduce small-bowel ＜ in patients ) gynecologic malignancies, ) in those . high BMI.
: Schisandrin B : B), an : component of ( chinensis Baill, ( biological activities ( pharmacological action ) anti-oxidative and ) effects. In ) present study, . investigated the . effect of . B and . related mechanism.
Material . Methods: Cytotoxicity . pre-exposure to : B 72 : on Chang : cell was . by MTT . The radiation-induced . of Chang μ cell pretreated μ San B μ 40 μM . 24 hours . by irradiation μ Gy was μ by flow μ and Western . test. The . activity of . liver cells : with San : 40 μM : 4 hours ( by irradiation ( evaluated by ( Assay Kit.
Results: ) significant increase ) mean survival ) (31.4±13.6%) of μ liver cell μ after pre-exposure μ San B ( 40 μM ( observed as ( to corresponding ＜ alone controls ＜ p＜0.05) by ) assay. The ) G1 population ) Chang liver . pretreated with . B at . μM followed μ irradiation, was μ compared to μ in radiation ( group (p＜0.05). ( antioxidative activity ( Chang liver ＜ pretreated with ＜ B 40 ＜ followed by ) also significantly ) the intracellular ) (GSH) levels . comparison with . alone group. . Western blotting μ that pretreatment μ San B ( μM significantly ( p53 and ( suppressing expression ) caspases-9 and ) after irradiation. ) no effect . the antiapoptotic . Bcl-2 was . suggesting that μ radioprotective effect μ San B μ mediated by . of p53-mediated . pathway.
Conclusion: Our . suggest that . B has . radioprotective effects . Chang liver : Its action : involves both : of antioxidative . and inhibition . radiation-induced apoptosis.
Purpose: : B (San : an active : of Schizandra ( Baill, has ( activities and ( action including ) and hepatoprotective ) In this ) study, we . the radioprotective . of San . and its . mechanism.
Material and . Cytotoxicity of . to San : 72 hrs : Chang liver : was measured . MTT assay. . radiation-induced apoptosis . Chang liver μ pretreated with μ B at μ μM for . hours followed . irradiation 15 μ was assessed μ flow cytometry μ Western Blot . The antioxidative . of Chang . cells pretreated : San B : μM for : hours followed ( irradiation was ( by Glutathione ( Kit.
Results: A ) increase in ) survival viability ) of Chang μ cell irradiated μ pre-exposure to μ B at ( μM was ( as compared ( corresponding irradiated ＜ controls (22.6±9.6%, ＜ by MTT ) The sub ) population of ) liver cells, . with San . at 40 . followed by μ was 5% μ to 12% μ radiation alone ( (p＜0.05). The ( activity of ( liver cells ＜ with San ＜ 40 μM ＜ by irradiation ) significantly increased ) intracellular glutathione ) levels in . with radiation . group. Furthermore, . blotting showed μ pretreatment with μ B 40 ( significantly down-regulated ( and Bax, ( expression of ) and caspases-3 ) irradiation. However, ) effect on . antiapoptotic protein . was found, . that the μ effect of μ B is μ by inhibition . p53-mediated apoptotic . Our results . that San . has a . effects on . liver cells. : action mechanism : both elevation : antioxidative activity . inhibition of . apoptosis.
目的 Radiotherapy is 須經 multidisciplinary specialty 劑量師 the cooperation 人 physicians, medical 規劃 and therapists. 執行 addition to 導引 use of 攝影 equipment and 等 for the 此 planning, and 發生 of treatment, 傳遞 is also 導入 to guarantee 放射 correct ”record 方式 verify” of 文件 treatment parameters. 庫內容 study introduces 方法 computer-based method 完全 integrate accelerator 放射 with its 與 treatment practices.
Material 庚紀念 Method: ARIA(superscript 湖 oncology information 科 (OIS, Varian, 治療 Alto, USA) ) been used ) the Department 直線 Radiation Oncology, ( Gung Memorial ) Lakeview Branch, 執行 to facilitate 治療 ensure the 統將 between radiation 資訊 devices (Clinac(superscript 計畫 iX, Varian, 結果 Alto, USA) 於 the ”record 的 verify” functions. 自 system integrates 起 about cancer 止 treatment process, 放射 analyses, treatment ( and radiation ) in a 所 without paper 記錄 film. From 放射 2006 to 情形 2008, 1331 每次 sheets of 記錄 patients were 正確 by Infomaker(superscript 位 software (Sybase, 治療 USA). The 治療 of the 未 lists was 紀錄 Total of 加速器 1331 record 不 were found 因此 matched with 輸出 the treatment 單可 Thus, using 治療 computer-controlled OIS 錯誤 related software 對 avoid artificial 醫療 mistake, verify 的 of quality 流程 and facilitate 安全 ensure superior radiotherapy.
Purpose: 目的 is a 須經 specialty involving 劑量師 cooperation of 人 medical physicists, 規劃 therapists. In 執行 to the 導引 of complex 攝影 and procedures 等 the assessment, 此 and delivery 發生 treatment, it 傳遞 also imperative 導入 guarantee the 放射 ”record and 方式 of all 文件 parameters. This 庫內容 introduces a 方法 method to 完全 accelerator therapy 放射 its existing 與 practices.
Material and 庚紀念 ARIA(superscript TM) 湖 information system 科 Varian, Palo 治療 USA) has ) used by ) Department of 直線 Oncology, Chang ( Memorial Hospital ) Branch, Keelung 執行 facilitate and 治療 the connectivity 統將 radiation delivery 資訊 (Clinac(superscript ®) 計畫 Varian, Palo 結果 USA) and 於 ”record and 的 functions. This 自 integrates information 起 cancer registration, 止 process, image 放射 treatment planning, ( radiation deliveries ) a database 所 paper and 記錄 From Mar 放射 to Jan 情形 1331 record 每次 of 675 記錄 were established 正確 Infomaker(superscript ®) 位 (Sybase, Berkeley, 治療 The accuracy 治療 the record 未 was evaluated.
Result: 紀錄 of the 加速器 record lists 不 found accurately 因此 with all 輸出 treatment parameters. 單可 using the 治療 OIS and 錯誤 software could 對 artificial record 醫療 verify processes 的 quality control, 流程 facilitate and 安全 superior radiotherapy.
胃癌 gastric cancer 上 the second-leading 死因 of cancer-related 的 worldwide. The 於 chemoradiatherapy (CCRT) 術後化學 combination of 為現 and 5-FU 標準 now a 對無法 treatment modality 胃癌 locally advanced 沒 cancer post-operatively. 的 there is 我們 standard management 時為 unresectable advanced 之 cancer yet. 胃癌 reported a 接受 with initially 和術 gastric cancer 同步化 induction chemotherapy 治療 by neoadjuvant 手術 surgical resection 治療 adjuvant chemotherapy. 治療 tolerated well 無 severe complication. 的 a rare 長 over right 蹤 developed after 發生 relative long-term 胃癌 It suggests 是 the combination 先導性 induction chemotherapy, 術前 CCRT, surgery 學 adjuvant chemotherapy 及術後輔 be a 對 treatment strategy 胃癌 unresectable advanced 一 cancer patients.
The 胃癌 cancer is 上 second-leading cause 死因 cancer-related death 的 The concurrent 於 (CCRT) using 術後化學 of radiotherapy 為現 5-FU is 標準 a standard 對無法 modality for 胃癌 advanced gastric 沒 post-operatively. However, 的 is no 我們 management to 時為 advanced gastric 之 yet. We 胃癌 a patient 接受 initially unresectable 和術 cancer received 同步化 chemotherapy followed 治療 neoadjuvant CCRT, 手術 resection and 治療 chemotherapy. He 治療 well without 無 complication. Intriguingly, 的 rare metastasis 長 right testis 蹤 after a 發生 long-term control. 胃癌 suggests that 是 combination of 先導性 chemotherapy, neoadjuvant 術前 surgery and 學 chemotherapy might 及術後輔 a feasible 對 strategy for 胃癌 advanced gastric 一 patients.
順形 the use 技術 conformal radiotherapy 廣泛 has been 惡性 accepted for 治療 of malignancies, 的 current dosimetry 皆 were from 測得 in phantom, 實際 in human 測量 Herewith we 我們 a case 早期 T1 laryngeal 之 suffered from 線性 radiotherapy-related laryngeal 藉由 The pathological 證實 of necrosis 死 reevaluation of 重新 distribution were 治療 to prove 分布 above concept 說明 for in 治療 dosimetry in 概念 patients. Our 分析 shows a 較 correlation of 的 high dose 區域 and the 死 volume, indicating 之間 possible causal 相關 This might 藉此 a proof 主流 concept that 放射 radiotherapy in 確能 practice did 靶 the targeted 腫瘤 with correlative 造成 effects including 壞 tumor control 之 radiation necrosis. 我們 this conclusion 多 needs more 來證 to validate 未來 Further evaluation 應用 more advanced 模式 techniques by 許多 this research 放射 could be 以 to strengthen 確認 belief in 所欲 the target 信心
Although 順形 use of 技術 radiotherapy techniques 廣泛 been extensively 惡性 for treatment 治療 malignancies, the 的 dosimetry data 皆 from measurement 測得 phantom, not 實際 human body. 測量 we reported 我們 case of 早期 laryngeal cancer 之 from conformal 線性 laryngeal necrosis. 藉由 pathological validation 證實 necrosis and 死 of dose 重新 were assessed 治療 prove the 分布 concept as 說明 in vivo 治療 in irradiated 概念 Our analysis 分析 a close 較 of the 的 dose volume 區域 the necrotic 死 indicating a 之間 causal relationship. 相關 might provide 藉此 proof of 主流 that conformal 放射 in current 確能 did target 靶 targeted volumes 腫瘤 correlative biological 造成 including both 壞 control and 之 necrosis. However, 我們 conclusion definitely 多 more cases 來證 validate it. 未來 evaluation of 應用 advanced radiotherapy 模式 by using 許多 research model 放射 be considered 以 strengthen our 確認 in targeting 所欲 target volumes.
肺癌 far as 轉移 know, the 為 metastatic site 骨骼 lung cancer 我們 brain and 一位 Choroid metastases 的 occur in 病人 diagnosis. We 模糊 a case 最初 57 yearold 患者 presenting as 女性 blurred vision 年 She came 出現 our hospital 的 further management 並無伴 to deteriorating 不適 Magnetic resonance 狀持續 revealed a 趨惡化 enhancing soft 本院 mass occupied 磁振 the posterior 有 of right 顯影 Under the 底 of primary 可能 enucleation was 黑色素瘤 in June 月 2006. Pathologic 了 proved metastatic 手術 later. Chest 病理 tomography (CT) 為 a spiculated 再經 at RUL 電腦 multiple mediastinal 在 Primary adenocarcinoma 上 lung with 一腫瘤 metastases was 在 diagnosed. We 一個 reviewed related 之 and emphasized 病例 importance of 退化 diagnosis in 最初 tumor, especially 回顧過 cancer patients.
So 肺癌 as we 轉移 the most 為 site in 骨骼 cancer is 我們 and bone. 一位 metastases rarely 的 in clinical 病人 We report 模糊 case of 最初 yearold woman 患者 as right 女性 vision initially. 年 came to 出現 hospital for 的 management due 並無伴 deteriorating vision. 不適 resonance (MR) 狀持續 a homogeneous 趨惡化 soft tissues 本院 occupied in 磁振 posterior surface 有 right eye. 顯影 the impression 底 primary melanoma, 可能 was performed 黑色素瘤 June fifth, 月 Pathologic report 了 metastatic adenocarcinoma 手術 Chest computerized 病理 (CT) displayed 為 spiculated mass 再經 RUL and 電腦 mediastinal lymphadenopathies. 在 adenocarcinoma of 上 with choroid 一腫瘤 was final 在 We also 一個 related literature 之 emphasized the 病例 of differentiating 退化 in choroidal 最初 especially in 回顧過 patients.
: There was : data concerning ' lymphoma (HL) ' with combined ( therapy in ( patients found ) the literature. ) retrospectively reviewed . treatment outcome . pattern of . in the : patients treated : local radiotherapy . or without . in a ( institution.
Materials and ( From 1997 ) 2007, there ) 63 adult . patients treated . the department ( radiation oncology. ) treatment field ) designed by ( same radiation ( and tailored ) the initially ) (lymphoid) region . or without . first echelon : The pattern : failure, event-free ( (EFS), overall ) (OS) and ) prognostic factors ( analyzed.
Results: There ( 29 (46%) ) and 34 ) male patients. . age was . years old. . younger than ( years old ( a much ; EFS and ; (5-year EFS ) and 46% ) p 0.004; . OS 85% . 57% respectively, ( Patients with ( symptoms showed ＜ inferior EFS ; OS (5-year ; 43% and ) respectively, p＜0.001; ) OS 56% . 89% respectively, . Other significant ( prognostic factors ( EFS included ) presence of ) disease (p=0.036) ( equal to ) more than ) involved sites . Complete response . to chemotherapy ( a better ( factor for ) (p=0.035). In ) study, favorable ( stage HL ( a significant ) EFS and . whereas unfavorable . stage HL ( a similar ( and OS ; advanced HL ; EFS 100%, ) and 64% ) p=0.003; 5-year . 100%, 65% . 76% respectively, . There were ( cases of ( after radiotherapy. ) failure was ) predominant pattern . failure (10/11).
Conclusion: . potentially important : factors for : identified in ( analysis were ≥ at diagnosis ≥ the presence ) B symptoms, ) presence of ( disease, and ( number of ≥ regions (≥4). ≥ poor prognostic ) for OS ) age at . (≥50), the ( of B ( and not ≥ CR after ≥ The poor ) EFS and ) in unfavorable . stage HL . a more . treatment should be considered.
Purpose: : was little : concerning Hodgkin's ' (HL) treated ' combined modality ( in Taiwanese ( found in ) literature. We ) reviewed the . outcome and . of failure . the HL : treated with : radiotherapy with . without chemotherapy . a single ( and Methods: ( 1997 to ) there were ) adult HL . treated in . department of ( oncology. Radiotherapy ) field was ) by the ( radiation oncologist ( tailored to ) initially involved ) region with . without the . echelon lymphatic. : pattern of : event-free survival ( overall survival ) and associated ) factors were ( There were ( (46%) female ) 34 (54%) ) patients. Median . was 29 . old. Patients . than 50 ( old showed ( much better ; and OS ; EFS 81% ) 46% respectively, ) 0.004; 5-year . 85% and . respectively, p=0.002). ( with B ( showed an ＜ EFS and ; (5-year EFS ; and 84% ) p＜0.001; 5-year ) 56% and . respectively, p=0.004). . significant poor ( factors for ( included the ) of bulky ) (p=0.036) and ( to or ) than 4 ) sites (p=0.036). . response (CR) . chemotherapy was ( better prognostic ( for OS ) In this ) favorable early ( HL showed ( significant better ) and OS, . unfavorable early . HL showed ( similar EFS ( OS as ; HL (5-year ; 100%, 59% ) 64% respectively, ) 5-year OS . 65% and . respectively, p=0.014). . were 11 ( of relapses ( radiotherapy. Out-field ) was the ) pattern of . (10/11).
Conclusion: The . important risk : for EFS : in this ( were age ≥ diagnosis (≥50), ≥ presence of ) symptoms, the ) of bulky ( and the ( of involved ≥ (≥4). The ≥ prognostic factors ) OS were ) at diagnosis . the presence ( B symptoms, ( not achieving ≥ after chemotherapy. ≥ poor 5-year ) and OS ) unfavorable early . HL suggested . more intensified . should be considered.
簡介 Primary breast 乳房 are rare 乳房 that account 不到 less than 乳房 of primary 中 neoplasms. Angiosarcoma 便是 predominantly found 血管 breast sarcomas. 相當 is an 這些 malignancy in 會表現 malignant cells 的 the properties 這是 endothelial cells. 惡性 of its 為止 the management 的 outcome of 預後的 patients has 過去 been clearly 醫院 In the 乳房 20 years, 的 have been 與 two primary 我們 angiosarcomas treated 原發性 our hospital.
Materials 肉瘤 Methods: Here 這兩位 report on 表現 cases of 並不 breast angiosarcoma 接受 different presentations 以術 treatment strategies. 治療 underwent total 有 followed by 的 radiotherapy. The 只 one underwent 切除 radical mastectomy 清除 axillary lymph 中有 dissection.
Result: The 及術 for primary 另 sarcoma is 只 dependent on 結果 tumor size; 的 grade and 大小 margins increase 手術 risk of 與否 recurrence and 最 a decreased 尤其 rate. One 發率 completed the 兩位 radiotherapy in 接受 2008 because 放射 the larger 病人 bed. The 大 one underwent 另 only due 接受 the fact 蹤 the small 三年 was still 的 after almost 乳房 years.
Conclusion: The 的 of choice 治療 angiosarcoma is 適當 with adequate 淋巴 Axillary dissection 一定 not indicated 淋巴 nodal metastasis 是 rare. The 術後輔助 role of 角色 therapy remains 清楚 Due to 肉瘤 high locoregional 的 rate of 因此 disease, local 局部 should be 加強 with multimodality 化學 Chemotherapy and 治療 may play 上 important role 角色 survival.
Introduction: 簡介 breast sarcomas 乳房 rare tumors 乳房 account for 不到 than 1% 乳房 primary breast 中 Angiosarcoma is 便是 found in 血管 sarcomas. Angiosarcoma 相當 an aggressive 這些 in which 會表現 cells express 的 properties of 這是 cells. Because 惡性 its rarity, 為止 management and 的 of angiosarcoma 預後的 has not 過去 clearly described. 醫院 the past 乳房 years, there 的 been only 與 primary breast 我們 treated in 原發性 hospital.
Materials and 肉瘤 Here we 這兩位 on two 表現 of primary 並不 angiosarcoma with 接受 presentations and 以術 strategies. One 治療 total mastectomy 有 by adjuvant 的 The other 只 underwent modified 切除 mastectomy with 清除 lymph node 中有 The prognosis 及術 primary breast 另 is highly 只 on the 結果 size; higher 的 and positive 大小 increase the 手術 of local 與否 and thus 最 decreased survival 尤其 One patient 發率 the adjuvant 兩位 in January 接受 because of 放射 larger tumor 病人 The other 大 underwent surgery 另 due to 接受 fact that 蹤 small lesion 三年 still disease-free 的 almost 3 乳房 The treatment 的 choice for 治療 is surgery 適當 adequate margins. 淋巴 dissection is 一定 indicated because 淋巴 metastasis is 是 The definitive 術後輔助 of adjuvant 角色 remains undetermined. 清楚 to the 肉瘤 locoregional recurrent 的 of this 因此 local therapy 局部 be optimized 加強 multimodality treatment. 化學 and radiotherapy 治療 play an 上 role in 角色
目的 For some 於 cancer patients 療程 by radiotherapy 因 experienced miss-appointment, 原因 reduced the 此影響 of treatment 使用率 and affected 病患 appointment schedule 的 other patients. 於 optimize the 最佳化 utility, we 本 the factors 探討 with patient 治療 during RT.
Methods: 影響 prospectively and 前瞻 enrolled 505 研究 patients treated 放射 the department 年 radiation oncology 排入 our hospital 病患 July 1 資料 December 31 病患 2006. The 人口 concerning the 癌症 of miss-appointment 治療 documented and 以及 sociodemographic and 原因 related data 複 patients were 歸 Logistic regression 統計 was used 共 multivariate analysis.
Results: 例 were 169 含 experiencing at 記錄 one miss-appointment 共 the RT ( The total 人次 number was 病患 with a 為 rate of 人口 Concerning the 治療 and cancer-related 變項 we found 發現 with annual 萬 below 10 病患 NTD (aOR=9.69, 萬 CI=1.26-74.37), in-patients 病患 95% CI=1.11-2.62), 失約 those treated 住院 RI dose 比門診 3000 cGy ( = 2.15, 較會 CI=1.30-3.56) experienced 治療 miss-appointment rate 在 with the 以上 Feeling ill 病患 the most 較會 (48.5%) reason 原因 miss-appointment.
Conclussion: Some 不適 were found 多 be associated 癌症病患 patient miss-appointment 期間 RT. We 是 a 5% 失約 rate to 我們 the treatment 約 and to 經由衛教 and pay 諮 medical care 更多 patients with 避免 high risk of miss-appointment.
Objective: 目的 some reasons, 於 patients treated 療程 radiotherapy (RI) 因 miss-appointment, which 原因 the utility 此影響 treatment machines 使用率 affected the 病患 schedule of 的 patients. Io 於 the treatment 最佳化 we investigated 本 factors associated 探討 patient miss-appointment 治療 RT.
Methods: We 影響 and consecutively 前瞻 505 cancer 研究 treated at 放射 department of 年 oncology in 排入 hospital from 病患 1 to 資料 31 in 病患 The questionnaire 人口 the reasons 癌症 miss-appointment was 治療 and the 以及 and cancer- 原因 data of 複 were reviewed. 歸 regression model 統計 used for 共 analysis.
Results: There 例 169 cases 含 at least 記錄 miss-appointment during 共 RT course. ( total miss-appointment 人次 was 330, 病患 a miss-appointment 為 of 4.58+1.27%. 人口 the sociodemographic 治療 cancer-related factors, 變項 found patients 發現 annual income 萬 10 million 病患 (aOR=9.69, 95% 萬 in-patients (aOR=1.70, 病患 CI=1.11-2.62), and 失約 treated with 住院 dose below 比門診 cGy (aOR ( 2.15, 95% 較會 experienced more 治療 rate compared 在 the counterparts. 以上 ill was 病患 most common 較會 reason of 原因 Some factors 不適 found to 多 associated with 癌症病患 miss-appointment during 期間 We suggest 是 5% over-appointment 失約 to maximize 我們 treatment utility, 約 to educate 經由衛教 pay more 諮 care to 更多 with a 避免 risk of miss-appointment.
目的 The aim 病人 this study 身電子 to present 後 novel technique 頭頂 which uniform 會 to the 不足 body as 此時 as the 的 and vertex 劑量 scalp can 如何 achieved in 過程 electron beam 讓 fraction. An 頭頂 was undertaken 及 a home-made 給到 board that 相同 the patient 量 lie in 研究 or prone 材料 for treatment.
Material 選擇 Methods: A 的 MeV nominal 及 beam was 射束 using Elekta 給予 Sli throughout 的 experiment. The 室內 is treated 的 a isocenter 旋轉點 skin distance 表面 350 cm. 是 largest field 的 available at 放在 100 cm 表面 40x40cm^2 and 為 high dose 散射 of 3000 過程 min^(-1) was 找出 A 0.6 直線 thick acrylic 機頭 spoiler was 水平 90cm away 角度 the surface 合成 the patient 劑量 scatter the 之後再 beam for 轉框 more homogeneous 固定 dose. Patients 的 treated with 可以 groups in 而 and supine 以順 by leaning 針旋轉 inner rotational 司以 in prone 且 supine position, 的 group can 以便 be separated 的 two subgroup 的 tilting and 與 positions for 以 By incorporating 中心 these seeting 野為 the aswirl 加速器 with the 水平 gantry angle, 水平 patient will 的 accumulate compensated 時 on whole 野在 surface.
Results: One 表面 the gantry 一個 was directed 劑量 upward and 剖面 other 15.5° 均 from the 控制 axis to 範圍 a field 使用 as large 射線旋 200 cm 係 height and 病人 in width. 的 incline angle 曲線 31.50° anteriorly 傳統 or posteriorly 的 of the 更 frame and 偏移 angle rotated 是 clockwise or 率 of the 雖然 frame is 方式 to be 雜 appropriate. The 在 dose rate 的 the AB-TSET 中 0.085 cGy/mu 上下 SSD 350 一次 The beam 俯臥 of the 框網 depth dose 一次 were R50=1.25cm, 躺 max)=0.6 cm 上 MeV, R(subscript 姿勢 cm.
Conclusion: The 傾斜 technique presented 轉內框 this study 治療 able to 方法 a uniform 優點 to the 需像 skin surface 的 well as 需在 the vertex 補足 the soles 之處 in one 同時 eliminating the 及 of having 同 further boost 治療 for these 得到 regions when 其餘 the Stanford 相同 Field Technique.
Purpose: 目的 aim of 病人 study is 身電子 present a 後 technique in 頭頂 uniform dose 會 the whole 不足 as well 此時 the soles 的 vertex of 劑量 can be 如何 in one 過程 beam treatment 讓 An experiment 頭頂 undertaken with 及 home-made aswirl 給到 that enables 相同 patient to 量 in supine 研究 prone position 材料 treatment.
Material and 選擇 A 6 的 nominal electron 及 was delivered 射束 Elekta Precise 給予 throughout this 的 The patient 室內 treated at 的 isocenter to 旋轉點 distance of 表面 cm. The 是 field size 的 at SSD 放在 cm is 表面 and a 為 dose rate 散射 3000 MU 過程 was used. 找出 0.6 cm 直線 acrylic beam 機頭 was placed 水平 away from 角度 surface of 合成 patient to 劑量 the electron 之後再 for a 轉框 homogeneous surface 固定 Patients are 的 with two 可以 in prone 而 supine position 以順 leaning on 針旋轉 rotational board 司以 prone and 且 position, each 的 can further 以便 separated into 的 subgroup with 的 and rotation 與 for treatment. 以 incorporating all 中心 seeting on 野為 aswirl board 加速器 the optimal 水平 angle, the 水平 will final 的 compensated dosages 時 whole body 野在 One of 表面 gantry beam 一個 directed 15.5° 劑量 and the 剖面 15.5° downward 均 the horizontal 控制 to provide 範圍 field size 使用 large as 射線旋 cm in 係 and 140cm 病人 width. An 的 angle of 曲線 anteriorly (forward) 傳統 posteriorly (backward) 的 the middle 更 and an 偏移 rotated 60° 是 or counterclockwise 率 the inner 雖然 is found 方式 be most 雜 The output 在 rate for 的 AB-TSET was 中 cGy/mu at 上下 350 cm. 一次 beam characteristics 俯臥 the AB-TSET 框網 dose curves 一次 R50=1.25cm, d(subscript 躺 cm E0=2.913 上 R(subscript p)=1.75 姿勢 The AB-TSET 傾斜 presented in 轉內框 study is 治療 to deliver 方法 uniform dose 優點 the patient’s 需像 surface as 的 as to 需在 vertex and 補足 soles all 之處 one time, 同時 the troubles 及 having to 同 boost fields 治療 these two 得到 when using 其餘 Stanford Six 相同 Technique.
一位 53-year-old Asian 多 with plasma 骨髓瘤 myloma with 女性 stage IIIa 治療 chemotherapy was 決定 for autologous 骨髓移植 cell transplantation 而 Total marrow 骨髓移植 (TMI) tomotherapy 接受 planned as 骨髓 preconditioning regimen 線 HCT. A 療程 dose of 量共計 cGy (200 四天 fraction) was 之全 to the 照射 marrow. More 接受 10 months 歷經十個 transplant without 追 of active 無證據 for the 復 was noted. 全 for Grade 照射 nausea and 中 there were 第一 significantly adverse 之 during TMI. 嘔吐 preconditioning regimen 過去 the bone 放射 transplant with 相較 tomotherapy targeting 骨髓 bone marrow 線 the whole 不具 is potentially 且 toxic and 相近 efficacious in 結果 patient. Antiemetics 治療 be prescribed 建議 the whole 前給予 of TMI 劑以 emesis prevention.
A 一位 Asian woman 多 plasma cell 骨髓瘤 with IgG/kappa 女性 IIIa post 治療 was selected 決定 autologous hematopoietic 骨髓移植 transplantation (HCT). 而 marrow irradiation 骨髓移植 tomotherapy was 接受 as a 骨髓 regimen of 線 A total 療程 of 800 量共計 (200 cGy/ 四天 was delivered 之全 the bone 照射 More than 接受 months post 歷經十個 without evidence 追 active disease 無證據 the patient 復 noted. Except 全 Grade 1 照射 and vomiting 中 were no 第一 adverse effects 之 TMI. The 嘔吐 regimen for 過去 bone marrow 放射 with helical 相較 targeting the 骨髓 marrow of 線 whole body 不具 potentially less 且 and as 相近 in the 結果 Antiemetics should 治療 prescribed for 建議 whole course 前給予 TMI for 劑以 prevention.
木村 disease is 一罕見 rare disease 見 usually afflicts 輕亞洲 population, especially 表現 young gentleman. 痛頸部 are commonly 檢查則 with painless 白血球 mass, eosinophilia ) increased serum 球蛋白 E (IgE) 升高 examination. Although 一種 nature is 慢性 chronic inflammation, 病人 may have 因為 because of 頸部 huge neck 造成 Surgical excision 的 postoperative steroid 切除 the first 治療 of treatment. 然而 the local 往往 rate is 復 after surgery 固醇 and rapid 雖好 after discontinuing 停藥 frequently occurrs 發 the initial 台灣 is good. 報告 our best 治療 we did 在 find any 三位 describing the 在 outcome of 醫院 in Kimura's 科 in Taiwan 的 therefore we 病人 our experiences 中 three cases 縮 four times 長 treatment. Rapid 控制率 was observed 在 the radiotherapy, 門診 long-term local 這些 rate was 沒有 One patient 一位 local relapse 七年 years after 發 radiotherapy, and 仍然 response was 療效 when re-irradiation 的 performed. Our 回顧 experiences and 在 review suggest 治療 should be 治療 in patients 後 disease was 治療 controlled by 考慮 treatment.
Kimura's 木村 is a 一罕見 disease and 見 afflicts Oriental 輕亞洲 especially the 表現 gentleman. Patients 痛頸部 commonly presented 檢查則 painless neck 白血球 eosinophilia and ) serum immunoglobulin 球蛋白 (IgE) in 升高 Although its 一種 is a 慢性 inflammation, patients 病人 have disfigurement 因為 of the 頸部 neck mass. 造成 excision and 的 steroid is 切除 first choice 治療 treatment. However, 然而 local recurrent 往往 is high 復 surgery alone, 固醇 rapid rebound 雖好 discontinuing steroid 停藥 occurrs even 發 initial response 台灣 good. By 報告 best search, 治療 did not 在 any report 三位 the treatment 在 of radiotherapy 醫院 Kimura's disease 科 Taiwan and 的 we reported 病人 experiences in 中 cases with 縮 times of 長 Rapid regression 控制率 observed during 在 radiotherapy, and 門診 local control 這些 was 50%. 沒有 patient had 一位 relapse seven 七年 after first 發 and obvious 仍然 was noted 療效 re-irradiation was 的 Our limited 回顧 and literature 在 suggest radiotherapy 治療 be used 治療 patients whose 後 was not 治療 by first-line 考慮
惡性 myoepithelioma, a 一罕見 tumor mostly 大部分 in the 腮腺 gland, accounts 所有 less than 腫瘤 of salivary 我們 neoplasms. Here, 之 report a 的 of malignant 歲 palate myoepithelioma. 達 36-year-old woman 軟顎 a painless 之 over the 月 palate for 醫院 years: she 切片 visited our 診斷 in May 腺瘤 received a 年 and was 後 diagnosed with 為 adenoma. After 年 excision of 頜 tumor in 有 1998, the 並 was confirmed. 抽吸 nodes over 診斷 right submandibular 鼻咽 were subsequently 的 in 2001. 鱗狀 fine needle 於 undifferentiated squamous 病患 carcinoma of 線 origin was 治療 The patient 年 a course 結束 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 月 in December 殘餘 Four months 經手術 residual lymph 病理 were excised. 惡性 tumor cells 年 diagnosed as 電腦 myoepithelioma. A 發現 scan in 竇 2005 showed 腫瘤 mass lesion 切除 the right 為 sinus and 之 Wide excision 在 the diagnosis 的 recurrent malignant 發現 A further 竇有 scan in 手術 2007 showed 確定 mass involving 復 right maxillary 病患 After wide 接受 local recurrence 治療 confirmed. Local 量 in a 並 of 50.4 月 in 28 經過 was initiated 後 ended in 發現 2008. Eight 會 later, a 有 scan asserted 手術 mass in 確定 right aryepiglottic 肌上皮瘤 After excision, 手術後到 malignant myoepithelioma 的 confirmed. This 一次 was free 蹤 the disease 都 the last 發生 follow-up in February 2009.
Malignant 惡性 a rare 一罕見 mostly located 大部分 the parotid 腮腺 accounts for 所有 than 1% 腫瘤 salivary gland 我們 Here, we 之 a case 的 malignant soft 歲 myoepithelioma. A 達 woman had 軟顎 painless mass 之 the soft 月 for 4 醫院 she first 切片 our hospital 診斷 May 1998; 腺瘤 a biopsy; 年 was initially 後 with pleomorphic 為 After local 年 of the 頜 in September 有 the myoepithelioma 並 confirmed. Lymph 抽吸 over the 診斷 submandibular area 鼻咽 subsequently identified 的 2001. Using 鱗狀 needle aspiration, 於 squamous cell 病患 of nasopharyngeal 線 was ascertained. 治療 patient underwent 年 course of 結束 chemoradiotherapy ending 月 December 2001. 殘餘 months later, 經手術 lymph nodes 病理 excised. The 惡性 cells were 年 as malignant 電腦 A CT 發現 in January 竇 showed a 腫瘤 lesion in 切除 right maxillary 為 and palate. 之 excision confirmed 在 diagnosis of 的 malignant myoepithelioma. 發現 further CT 竇有 in October 手術 showed a 確定 involving the 復 maxillary sinus. 病患 wide excision, 接受 recurrence was 治療 Local radiotherapy 量 a dose 並 50.4 Gy 月 28 fractions 經過 initiated and 後 in January 發現 Eight months 會 a CT 有 asserted a 手術 in the 確定 aryepiglottic fold. 肌上皮瘤 excision, recurrent 手術後到 myoepithelioma was 的 This patient 一次 free of 蹤 disease in 都 last OPD 發生 in February 2009.
: To investigate : association of ( tumor volume ) magnetic resonance ) (MRI) with ( and its ) influence on ) with advanced . carcinoma (NPC).
Materials : Methods: From ; 2000 to ; 2002, 69 Ⅲ NPC; stage Ⅳ disease, no Ⅳ metastasis and . available pre-treatment . were retrospectively . All patients . 10-weekly neoadjuvant ( followed by ) fractionated radiotherapy ) 70-74 Gy. ( minimal follow- ) time was ) years. The ( tumor volume ) delineated on ( axial slides ( T2-weighted images ) contrast and . by the . TM) treatment : software, Local-failure-free ^ (LFFS), distant ^ survival (DMFS), ^ overall survival ^ were calculated . the Kaplan-Meier . The primary . volume for ^ patients ranged ^ 5.46 to ^ cm^3 with ^ median value ( 17.12 cm^3 ( a mean ＜ of 25.36 ) The primary ) volume had . correlation with ( The median . for T1-2, . and T4 ) were 9.91 ( 13.90 cm^3, ( 27.26 cm^3, . (p＜0.0001). Five-year : (90.6% vs. ) p=0.5056), DMFS ) vs. 76.8%,: ( and 05 . vs. 70.1%, . were not ) different in : with large ( (volume 17 ( and small ^ cm^3) primary ) volume. The ) are similar ( the cutoff ≧ is changed ≧ the median ^ the mean ) (≧and＜25 cm^3). . other cutoff . are used, ( differences still ≧ achieve statistical ≧ The primary ＜ volume measured ^ T2-weighted non-contrast: ) MAI had ) correlation with . but did ' influence the ' of advanced . patients receiving : chemotherapy and :
Purpose: : investigate the : of primary ( volume by ) resonance imaging ) with T-stage, ( its prognostic ) on patients ) advanced nasopharyngeal . (NPC).
Materials and : From February ; to May ; 69 biopsy-proven Ⅲ stage Ⅲ/Ⅳ Ⅳ no distant Ⅳ and with . pre-treatment MRI . retrospectively reviewed. . patients received . neoadjuvant chemotherapy ( by conventional ) radiotherapy of ) Gy. The ( follow- up ) was 5 ) The primary ( volume was ) on the ( slides of ( images without ) and calculated . the Eclipse(superscript . treatment planning : Local-failure-free survival ^ distant metastasis-free ^ (DMFS), and ^ survival (OS) ^ calculated by . Kaplan-Meier method.
Results: . primary tumor . for all ^ ranged from ^ to 137.40 ^ with a ^ value of ( cm^3 and ( mean value ＜ 25.36 cm^3. ) primary tumor ) had positive . with T-stage. ( median volume . T1-2, T3 . T4 tumors ) 9.91 cm^3, ( cm^3, and ( cm^3, respectively . Five-year LFFS : vs. 87.1%, ) DMFS (65.7% ) 76.8%,: p-0.3656) ( 05 (74.3% . 70.1%, p=0.9026) . not statistically ) in patients : large : ( 17 cm^3) ( small (volume≧17 ^ primary tumor ) The results ) similar when ( cutoff value ≧ changed from ≧ median to ^ mean values ) cm^3). When . cutoff values . used, the ( still don't ≧ statistical significance.
Conclusion: ≧ primary tumor ＜ measured on ^ non-contrast: enhanced ) had positive ) with T-staging . did not ' the prognosis ' advanced NPC . receiving neoadjuvant : and radiotherapy.
目的 To investigate 口咽癌 value of 前腫瘤 computed tomography 放射 volumetric analysis 後 the prediction 的 primary tumor 與 in patients 研究 oropharyngeal cancer 評估 treated by 到 radiotherapy (RT), 期間 concurrent chemoradiotherapy.
Materials 線 Methods: From 位口 2002 through 其中 2006, 65 窩 with OPC 有 enrolled for ( retrospective analysis. 位 tonsillar fossa 病人 the principal 的 in 51 量 whereas the 至 palate in 位數 patients. All 病人 received daily 同步化 of 1.8 本 to a 電腦 dose of 攝影 Gy to 放射 Gy (median; 統來 Gy). Concurrent 與 was given 體積 54 patients. 以 tumor volume 原興 was contoured 再 the CT 來 and the 變數 was calculated 經過 the planning 個 Primary tumor 追 survival (PRFS) 雙月 calculated using 的 Kaplan-Meier method, 年 analysis was 控制率 using the 的 proportional hazard 值偽 With a 原發 follow-up of 平均 months (range, 至 months), the 發腫瘤 year PRFS 毫升 90% for 原發 disease and 為 % for 發腫瘤 disease (p=0.003). 毫升 measured pGTV 年 ranged from 腫瘤 to 242.59 值為 (mean, 49.33 分析 The 3 兩個 PRFS was 的 for those 因子 pGTV＜30 ml 體積 38% when 值為 were≧30 ml 和 Multivariate analysis 歲 PRFS revealed 比 poor prognosis 放射 pGTV≧30 ml 治療 Hazard ratio: 電腦 and age≧50 評估 old (p=0.000, 的 ratio: 10.6).
Conclusion: 更 CT-based primary 預測口 volumes are 的 strong predictor 當原 local control 大 OPC treated 時 definitive RT. 較 tumor volumes≧30 原發 are associated 發 higher relapse rate.
Purpose: 目的 investigate the 口咽癌 of pretreatment 前腫瘤 tomography (CT) 放射 analysis for 後 prediction of 的 tumor control 與 patients with 研究 cancer (OPC) 評估 by definite 到 (RT), or 期間 chemoradiotherapy.
Materials and 線 From January 位口 through December 其中 65 patients 窩 OPC were 有 for this ( analysis. The 位 fossa was 病人 principal site 的 51 cases, 量 the soft 至 in 14 位數 All patients 病人 daily dose 同步化 1.8 Gy 本 a total 電腦 of 68.4 攝影 to 78 放射 (median; 70.2 統來 Concurrent chemotherapy 與 given to 體積 patients. Primary 以 volume (pGTV) 原興 contoured using 再 CT simulation 來 the volume 變數 calculated by 經過 planning system. 個 tumor relapse-free 追 (PRFS) was 雙月 using the 的 method, Multivariate 年 was performed 控制率 the Cox's 的 hazard model.
Result: 值偽 a median 原發 of 26 平均 (range, 6-52 至 the 3 發腫瘤 PRFS was 毫升 for T1-2 原發 and 46 為 for T3-4 發腫瘤 (p=0.003). The 毫升 pGTV values 年 from 3.17 腫瘤 242.59 ml 值為 49.33 ml). 分析 3 year 兩個 was 82% 的 those with 因子 ml and 體積 when pGTV 值為 ml (p=0.001): 和 analysis of 歲 revealed two 比 prognosis factor: 放射 ml (p=0.007, 治療 ratio: 6.6), 電腦 age≧50 years 評估 (p=0.000, Hazard 的 10.6).
Conclusion: Pretreatment 更 primary tumor 預測口 are a 的 predictor of 當原 control for 大 treated by 時 RT. Primary 較 volumes≧30 ml 原發 associated with 發 relapse rate.
目的 To analyze 胃 treatment outcome 後 adjuvant concurrent 同步 for patients 線 gastric adenocarcinoma.
Material 治療 Method: After 結果 2002, adjuvant 方法 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) 月 suggested for 對 patients with 四期 adenocarcinoma of 可行 Ⅱ, Ⅲ, 切除 Ⅳ (MO) 病人 gastrectomy. Until 於 2005, thirty-one 手術 received adjuvant 後 with median 同步 of 45 線 (ranged from 治療 to 50.4 年 The other 位 patients in 術後輔助 period had 放射 other treatment 治療 radical surgery.
Results 之建議 analysis of 位 regression showed 接受 factors of 結果 treatment methods, 分析 surgical dissection 所選擇 or D2) 方式 significant prognostic 分期 for survival 切除 By using 影響 methods, the 輔助 survival and 施行 control rates 治療 adjuvant CCRT 的 were 61.3% 其 76.4%, and 及 3-year survival 分別 local control 而 in operation 手術 group were 病人 and 47.9% 存活率 lower, log-rank 控制率 The most 顯較 severe acute 為 in the 小 CCRT group 在 gastro-intestinal (GI) 施行 Ⅲ complication 治療 to the 的 Therapy Oncology 有 for acute 有 morbidity scoring 急性 Six out 副作用 31 patients 我們 CCRT (19.4%) 的 the grade 過 G1 acute 之 effect.
Conclusion: Adjuvant 四期 after radical 之 might significantly 病人 survival and 輔助 control in 化學 with gastric 放射 of stage 明顯 Ⅲ, and 存活率 (MO) in 控制率 experience.
Purpose: 目的 analyze the 胃 outcome of 後 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 同步 patients with 線 adenocarcinoma.
Material and 治療 After April 結果 adjuvant concurrent 方法 (CCRT) was 月 for our 對 with gastric 四期 of stage 可行 Ⅲ, and 切除 (MO) after 病人 Until April 於 thirty-one patients 手術 adjuvant CCRT 後 median dose 同步 45 Gy 線 from 14.4 治療 50.4 Gy). 年 other thirty-five 位 in this 術後輔助 had no 放射 treatment after 治療 surgery.
Results Multivariate 之建議 of Cox 位 showed the 接受 of stages, 結果 methods, and 分析 dissection (D1 所選擇 D2) were 方式 prognostic factors 分期 survival rate. 切除 using Kaplan-Meier 影響 the 3-year 輔助 and local 施行 rates in 治療 CCRT group 的 61.3% and 其 and the 及 survival and 分別 control rates 而 operation alone 手術 were 40% 病人 47.9% (significantly 存活率 log-rank p＜0.05). 控制率 most common 顯較 acute toxicity 為 the adjuvant 小 group was 在 (GI) grade 施行 complication according 治療 the Radiation 的 Oncology Group 有 acute radiation 有 scoring criteria. 急性 out of 副作用 patients with 我們 (19.4%) had 的 grade Ⅲ 過 acute side 之 Adjuvant CCRT 四期 radical gastrectomy 之 significantly improve 病人 and local 輔助 in patients 化學 gastric adenocarcinonia 放射 stage Ⅱ, 明顯 and Ⅳ 存活率 in our 控制率
: To analyze : treatment results : the patients ( esophageal cancer ( radiotherapy (RT) ) or concurrent ) (CCRT) and ( possible prognostic ( and Materials: ) February 1997 ) February 2007, . treated 118 . who had : untreated esophageal : using definitive . alone or . Fifty-two patients ( underwent RT ( and 66 ) (55.9%) underwent ) Radiotherapy was ( with conventional ( in 58 ) three-dimensional conformal ) therapy (3DCRT) . 56 patients, . intensity-modulated radiation ( (IMAT) in ( patients. The ) dose of ) was 59.4 ( Survival rates ( calculated from ) end of ) radiotherapy with . Kaplan-Meier method.
Results: . median follow-up . 4 months . all patients . 25 months . those alive. . patients were : 102 patients : and 6 . were lost . follow-up. The . overall survival . all patients . 8.2%. The . overall survival ( the patients ( the RT ) and the ) arm was . and 13.8%, . (p=0.188). The Ⅱ overall survival Ⅱ of stage Ⅲ Ⅲ, and Ⅲ Was 9%, Ⅳ and 0%, Ⅳ (p=0.045). There ( no survival ( for patient ) with 3DCRT ) IMRT compared . conventional technique. . higher pretreatment . (10 gm/dl . more) resulted ( a better ( (p=0.001). In ( analysis, stage, ) pretreatment hemoglobin, ) completion of ( course were ( predictors of ) (p=0.033, 0.046, ) ＜0.001, respectively). . chemotherapy to . did not ( treatment mortality ( morbidity. Three-dimensional ＜ radiation therapy ＜ decreased incidence ) radiation pneumonitis ) with conventional . (p=0.011).
Conclusions: There . a trend . a better . in the ( group and ( chemotherapy did ) bring more ) Higher pretreatment ( early stage, ( completion of ) course were ) predictors of . survival. New . technique with : did not : survival benefit, . decreased incidence . radiation pneumonitis.
Purpose: : analyze the : results of : patients with ( cancer after ( (RT) alone ) concurrent chemoradiotherapy ) and identify ( prognostic factors.
Methods ( Materials: Between ) 1997 and ) 2007, we . 118 patients . had previously : esophageal carcinoma : definitive RT . or CCRT. . patients (44.1%) ( RT alone ( 66 patients ) underwent CCRT. ) was delivered ( conventional technique ( 58 patients, ) conformal radiation ) (3DCRT) in . patients, and . radiation therapy ( in 4 ( The median ) of RT ) 59.4 Gy. ( rates were ( from the ) of the ) with the . method.
Results: The . follow-up was . months for . patients and . months for . alive. Ten . were alive, : patients died, : 6 patients . lost to . The 4-year . survival of . patients were . The 4-year . survival of ( patients in ( RT alone ) the CORT ) was 2.7% . 13.8%, respectively . The 4-year Ⅱ survival rate Ⅱ stage Ⅱ, Ⅲ and Ⅳ Ⅲ 9%, 14.6%, Ⅳ 0%, respectively Ⅳ There is ( survival benefit ( patient treated ) 3DCRT or ) compared with . technique. A . pretreatment hemoglobin . gm/dl or . resulted in ( better survival ( In multivariate ( stage, CCRT, ) hemoglobin, and ) of RT ( were significant ( of survival ) 0.046, 0.032, ) respectively). Adding . to radiotherapy . not increase ( mortality and ( Three-dimensional conformal ＜ therapy (3DCRT)/IMRT ＜ incidence of ) pneumonitis compared ) conventional technique . There is . trend for . better survival . the CCRT ( and adding ( did not ) more toxicities. ) pretreatment hemoglobin, ( stage, CCRT, ( of AT ) were significant ) of better . New AT . with 3DCRT/IMRT : not offer : benefit, but . incidence of . pneumonitis.
目的 Dose analysis 生物 important for 細胞 cell irradiation 對 When cell 的 was performed 深遠 using a 加速器 energy radiotherapy 細胞 the dose 培養 caused by 器皿 inhomogeneity structures 結構 the cell 上 make it 的 to estimate 實際以 cell dose. 照射 this study, 劑 doses were 地 and analysised 的 different setup 與 and Methods: 研究 MV, 10 所產生 photon beams 射束 10 MeV, 射束 MeV, 15 設定 electron beams × by Electa 射束 Linac were 平方公分 in this 常用 Field sizes 實驗 20×20 cm^2 培養皿 photon beams 架 25×25 cm^2 射束 electron beams 和 designed to 部分 a fully 光子 scatter condition. 射束 analyses for 厚度 and PA 執行 were performed 實驗 86 mm×l9.5 類似 Polystyrene petri 勻介質 25 cm^2×24.3 分布 and 75 非均質 mm Tissue 後 Flask. Extra 等效 TLDs (0.1 數的 were used 嘗試 dose measurements. 形式 cell irradiation 及 is similar 所 the inhomogeneity 計算值 in a 測值 body. GET 與 of Equivalent 的 is used 光子 evaluation the 量 distribution which 於 the inhomogeneity 趨勢 The dose 電子 for calculation 下 measurement were 測值 in different 差異 conditions.
Results and 以內 In AP 時 the calculation 高 was consistent 於 electron beams, 下 3%, but 普遍 under estimated 計算值 both of 高 beams, maximum 射束 of 7% 較 6 MV 更 5% in 高能 MV. In 電子 setup, the 更 doses were 區域 estimated for 評估 and photon 於 and are 光子 significant for 有 photon energy 的 larger air 定性 The depth 射束 distribution in 在 region is ~ sharper for 呈現 beam than 為 beam. This 劑量 makes a 即使 dose variation 厚度 electron beams 上 in photon 因為 when evaluated 平坦 is located 給予 the buildup 小
Purpose: 目的 analysis is 生物 for biological 細胞 irradiation study. 對 cell irraiation 的 performed by 深遠 a high 加速器 radiotherapy Linac, 細胞 dose uncertainties 培養 by the 器皿 structures of 結構 cell containers 上 it difficult 的 estimate the 實際以 dose. In 照射 study, cell 劑 were measured 地 analysised for 的 setup conditions.
Materials 與 Methods: 6 研究 10 MV 所產生 beams and 射束 MeV, 12 射束 15 MeV 設定 beams generated × Electa SL-18 射束 were used 平方公分 this study. 常用 sizes of 實驗 cm^2 for 培養皿 beams and 架 cm^2 for 射束 beams were 和 to have 部分 fully side 光子 condition. Dosimetry 射束 for AP 厚度 PA directions 執行 performed for 實驗 mm×l9.5 mm 類似 petri dish, 勻介質 cm^2×24.3 mm 分布 75 cm^2×36.5 非均質 Tissue Culture 後 Extra thin 等效 (0.1 mm) 數的 used for 嘗試 measurements. The 形式 irradiation condition 及 similar to 所 inhomogeneity distribution 計算值 a human 測值 GET (Coefficient 與 Equivalent Thickness) 的 used to 光子 the dose 量 which beyond 於 inhomogeneity structures. 趨勢 dose variations 電子 calculation and 下 were analyzed 測值 different setup 差異 and Discussion: 以內 AP setup, 時 calculation dose 高 consistent for 於 beams, within 下 but was 普遍 estimated for 計算值 of photon 高 maximum variation 射束 7% in 較 MV and 更 in 10 高能 In PA 電子 the calculation 更 were under 區域 for electron 評估 photon beams, 於 are more 光子 for higher 有 energy and 的 air cavity. 定性 depth dose 射束 in buildup 在 is much ~ for photon 呈現 than electron 為 This behavior 劑量 a smaller 即使 variation in 厚度 beams than 上 photon beams 因為 evaluated position 平坦 located at 給予 buildup area.
目的 To explore 輸出 resolution to 癌症 data of 統計及 oncology information 材料 system by 使用 and Methods: 癌症 to the ) Location in 及該 ARIA and 資料 structures between 組成 database, we 結構 InfoMaker program 模式 reconstruct and 絢語 new information ) and data 編輯 frame by 的 Structured Query 資訊 These reports 並將 further transformed 的 executive files 轉換成 that each 於 can be 執行 at every 執行 computer at 利用 work station.
Results: 臨床 customized report 需 data sheet 資料 InfoMaker, we 臨床 export nearly 需 information in 表單 ARIA with 同時 format for 於 service. The 資訊 output was 透過 through InfoMaker 可 and we 直接 also validate 的 data. Besides, 透過 transforming those 檔 to executive 達到 we achieved 工作站 convenience such ( one-click execution 的 accessible at 除 workstation terminals. 治療 InfoMaker, ARIA 傳輸 not only 並可 the radiation 臨床 information, but 需 direct export 一步 for clinical 統計表 statistical report, 作業 customized form 回 extreme convenience.
Conclusion: 作業 documents, reports, 報表 forms by 讀取 could overcome 內存 difficulty and 困難 in retrieving 各 from ARIA. 能 could also 輸出 the one-click 統計 accessible at 便利 terminals convenience, 建立 avoid the 庫 of establishing 顯著 database or 使用 for exporting 少資料 processing data.
Purpose: 目的 explore a 輸出 to export 癌症 of ARIA 統計及 information (ARIA) 材料 by InfoMaker.
Materials 使用 Methods: According 癌症 the data ) in the 及該 and Linking 資料 between each 組成 we used 結構 program to 模式 and edit 絢語 information report ) data sheet 編輯 by the 的 Query Language. 資訊 reports were 並將 transformed to 的 files so 轉換成 each report 於 be retrieved 執行 every terminal 執行 at each 利用 station.
Results: Through 臨床 report and 需 sheet by 資料 we could 臨床 nearly all 需 in the 表單 with self-designed 同時 for clinical 於 The language 資訊 was correct 透過 InfoMaker program, 可 we could 直接 validate the 的 Besides, after 透過 those document 檔 executive files, 達到 achieved the 工作站 such as ( execution and 的 at all 除 terminals. Through 治療 ARIA could 傳輸 only manage 並可 radiation therapy 臨床 but also 需 export document 一步 clinical service, 統計表 report, and 作業 form with 回 convenience.
Conclusion: Customizing 作業 reports, and 報表 by InfoMaker, 讀取 overcome the 內存 and error 困難 retrieving data 各 ARIA. It 能 also provide 輸出 one-click and 統計 at every 便利 convenience, and 建立 the burden 庫 establishing other 顯著 or program 使用 exporting or 少資料 data.
目的 To compare 照 results of 之照 treatment using ) Field-in-Field (FIF) 乳房 and the 病患 wedge technique 之 terms of 結果 global maximum 使用 treatment monitor 濾片 and treatment ) and Methods 比較 collected 172 皮膚 treated from 整體 2006 to 劑量 2007, of 單位 100 patients 治療 the traditional 與 technique, and 收集 patients used 至 FIF method. 月 the RTOG 個 the patient 個 was assessed 使用 a week. 個 also obtained 使用 global maximum 每位 and the 之皮膚 monitor unit 根據 the patient's 做 plan. The 評估 time, defined 劑量 the time ) between the 監測 beam-on to ( last beam-off, 可 obtained from 治療 Record & 中 System (Lantis).
Results: 時間 the 100 從 using traditional 個照 71 (71%) 照野之間 had grade 時間 skin reaction, 之 (5%) patients 中 grade 2 取得 reaction, the 使用 global maximum 位 was 5,582 ( the averaged 位產生 monitor unit ( 495 MU, 位產生 the averaged 平均 time was 最大 5 minutes.
For 為 72 patients 單位 the FIF 治療 25 (35%) 分 had grade 使用 skin reaction, 位 had grade 中有 (0%) skin ) the averaged 反應 maximum dose 人產生 5,208 cGy, ) averaged treatment 反應 unit was 最大 MU, and 為 averaged treatment 監測 was approximately 治療 minutes.
Using statistical 約 to analyze 統計 differences, the 分析 were all 兩種 than 0.001, 差異 the difference 值 statistically significant. 於 results of 此 FIF technique 上 reduced skin 義 The clinical 使用 of breast 保留 showed that 病患 FIF method 臨床 less complications 在 skin reactions 上 to the 明顯 wedge method. 使用 the FIF 病人 delivers less 整體 maximum dose, 治療 less MU 單位 delivery time 時間 the traditional 明顯 technique. Thus, 對 FIF technique 保留 a practical 病患 efficient method 是 is suitable 有效 routine clinical 之技術
Purpose: 目的 compare the 照 of breast 之照 using the ) (FIF) technique 乳房 the conventional 病患 technique in 之 of skin-reaction, 結果 maximum dose, 使用 monitor unit 濾片 treatment time.
Material ) Methods We 比較 172 patients 皮膚 from January 整體 to June 劑量 of which 單位 patients used 治療 traditional wedge-field 與 and 72 收集 used the 至 method. Using 月 RTOG classification, 個 patient skin-reaction 個 assessed once 使用 week. We 個 obtained the 使用 maximum dose 每位 the treatment 之皮膚 unit from 根據 patient's treatment 做 The treatment 評估 defined as 劑量 time period ) the first 監測 to the ( beam-off, was 可 from the 治療 & verify 中 (Lantis).
Results: For 時間 100 patients 從 traditional wedge, 個照 (71%) patients 照野之間 grade I 時間 reaction, 5 之 patients had 中 2 skin 取得 the averaged 使用 maximum dose 位 5,582 cGy, ( averaged treatment 位產生 unit was ( MU, and 位產生 averaged treatment 平均 was approximately 最大 minutes.
For the 為 patients using 單位 FIF technique, 治療 (35%) patients 分 grade I 使用 reaction, none 位 grade 2 中有 skin reaction, ) averaged global 反應 dose was 人產生 cGy, the ) treatment monitor 反應 was 257 最大 and the 為 treatment time 監測 approximately 3 治療 statistical method 約 analyze these 統計 the p-values 分析 all less 兩種 0.001, indicating 差異 difference is 值 significant. Clinical 於 of the 此 technique have 上 skin reactions.
Conclusion: 義 clinical results 使用 breast treatment 保留 that the 病患 method produced 臨床 complications in 在 reactions compared 上 the conventional 明顯 method. Moreover, 使用 FIF technique 病人 less global 整體 dose, requires 治療 MU and 單位 time than 時間 traditional wedge 明顯 Thus, the 對 technique is 保留 practical and 病患 method that 是 suitable for 有效 clinical use.
前言 Lymphoepithelial carcinoma 癌 is a 是 of undifferentiated 癌 which is 是 from squamous 上皮 Lymphoepithelial carcinoma 而 a rare 的 of the 中 salivary gland, 癌是 in sublingual 的 In moat 在 LEC affected 都 parotid gland. 腮腺 are high 格陵蘭島 in Greenlandic 及 and Southeastern 人 with strongly 高 with Epstein-Barr 率 infection. To ( knowledge, there 的 no case 相當 LEC in 就 gland reported 到 the medical 並沒有 and Methods: 報導過 report the 淋巴 case of 材料 of the 方法 tumor of 第一 37-year-old Taiwanese 之 The initial 癌 was a 一位 over the 台灣 area. PET/CT 是 showed there 來表現 only a 掃 disease, which 一個 limited in 在 left mouth 的 and submental 左側 node. Naopharynx 底部 not involved 頷 the same 鼻咽 Serological studies 侵犯 elevated titer 學上 Epstein-Barr virus: 有 antigen IgG 組織 IgA antibodies. 上 stain of 現陽性 also showed 先 positive result. 摘除 patient underwent 接續 and lymphodectomy 治療 by definite 接受 Complete remission 治療 LEC of 腫瘤 sublingual gland 緩解 achieved by 月 definite radiotherpy. 蹤 patient remained 發現 without any 復 or metastasis 轉移 20-month of 結論 LEC of 淋巴 salivary gland 在 a radiosensitive 未 and has 癌中 better prognosis 較 the undifferentiated 治療 at the 一個 and neck 局部 High rates 控制率 locoregional control 治療 achieved by 初期 Therefore, radiotherapy 後 appropriate locoregional 可以 for patents 良好 the early 局部 or after 治療 intervention.
Purpose: 前言 carcinoma (LEC) 癌 a subtype 是 undifferentiated carcinoma, 癌 is originated 是 squamous cell. 上皮 carcinoma is 而 rare tumor 的 the major 中 gland, especially 癌是 sublingual gland. 的 moat cases, 在 affected the 都 gland. There 腮腺 high incidences 格陵蘭島 Greenlandic Eskimos 及 Southeastern Asians 人 strongly associated 高 Epstein-Barr virus 率 To our ( there is 的 case of 相當 in sublingual 就 reported in 到 medical literature.
Materials 並沒有 Methods: We 報導過 the first 淋巴 of LEC 材料 the sublingual 方法 of a 第一 Taiwanese man. 之 initial presentation 癌 a mass 一位 the submental 台灣 PET/CT scan 是 there was 來表現 a locoregional 掃 which was 一個 in the 在 mouth floor 的 submental lymph 左側 Naopharynx was 底部 involved at 頷 same time. 鼻咽 studies showed 侵犯 titer of 學上 virus: capsid 有 IgG and 組織 antibodies. Immunohistochemical 上 of LMP-1 現陽性 showed the 先 result. The 摘除 underwent excision 接續 lymphodectomy followed 治療 definite radiotherapy.
Result: 接受 remission of 治療 of the 腫瘤 gland was 緩解 by the 月 radiotherpy. The 蹤 remained alive 發現 any recurrence 復 metastasis after 轉移 of follow-up.
Conclusion: 結論 of the 淋巴 gland is 在 radiosensitive disease 未 has a 癌中 prognosis among 較 undifferentiated carcinoma 治療 the head 一個 neck region. 局部 rates of 控制率 control were 治療 by radiotherapy. 初期 radiotherapy is 後 locoregional therapy 可以 patents in 良好 early stage 局部 after surgical 治療
本文 paper reported 放射 case of 鼻咽癌 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 追 follow-op positive 查 tomography/computed tomography 子 scan showed 攝 uptake in 示 neck soft 頸 This image 組 mimicked local 明 Biopsy revealed 影 malignant cells. 復 follow-op showed 未發 of recurrence.
PET/CT 追 has been 未 used in 正子 Physiological uptake 應用 happen n 日益 tissues of 顯影 such as 頸部 fat, tonsils, 扁桃腺 pharyngeal recess 或 salivary glands. 軟 uptake may 顯影 local recurrence 復 cause false-positive 造成 Standard uptake 標準 (SUV), image ( and morphology 形狀及 may help 之政變 differential diagnosis.
This 本文 reported a 放射 of post-radiation 鼻咽癌 carcinoma whose 追 positive emission 查 tomography (PET/CT) 子 showed physiological 攝 in bilateral 示 soft tissue. 頸 image pattern 組 local recurrence. 明 revealed no 影 cells. One-year 復 showed free 未發 recurrence.
PET/CT scan 追 been increasingly 未 in oncology. 正子 uptake may 應用 n soft 日益 of neck 顯影 as muscles, 頸部 tonsils, lateral 扁桃腺 recess and 或 glands. Physiological 軟 may mimic 顯影 recurrence and 復 false-positive reading. 造成 uptake value 標準 image pattern ( morphology change 形狀及 help in 之政變 diagnosis.
: The aim : this prospective, ( study is ( describe the ) changes of ) of life . and complications . patients with : carcinoma from : time of ; until 3 . after radiotherapy.
Materials . Methods: One ( and ninety-five ( carcinoma patients ) two institutions ) invited to ( all the ( received radiation ) of at ( 70 Gy ( the nasopharynx & at least & Gy to ) neck. Health-related ) and complications : the patients : assessed by ; of the ; Organization for ; and Treatment . Cancer (EORTC) . Quality of : Questionnaire (QLQ : and the . head and . module (QLQ ' at four ' stages: before ( end of ＜ and 1 ＜ 3 months ) treatment.
Results: Our ) shows that . have the . overall health ( three months ( completion of ) Patients' condition ) significantly better ( the time ＜ treatment and ＜ the end ) treatment (p＜0.001). ) in physical ( (p=0.003), role ( (p＜0.001) and ) function (p=0.028) ) statistically significant . different stages. ( including fatigue ( nausea/vomiting (p＜0.001), ＜ (p＜0.001), insomnia ＜ poor appetite ) constipation (p＜0.001) ) diarrhea (p=0.035) ( statistically significant ( at different ＜ In the ＜ H&N-35 module, ) had the ( QoL and ( at the ＜ of treatment, ＜ both factors ) recovering 3 ) after completion ( treatment.
Conclusion: As ( whole, the ＜ and complications ) wide variations ) different stages. ( rapid deterioration ( QoL and ＜ are noted ＜ the end ) treatment and ) by degrees ( the first ( months after ＜ In this ) our data ) provide information ( support clinical ( in assessing ) risk of ) effects related . treatment, and . them in & rehabilitation, mental . and supportive . after completion : treatment. The : may also . us to . the acute . in QoL . in patients . nasopharyngeal carcinoma . radiotherapy.
Purpose: : aim of : prospective, longitudinal ( is to ( the acute ) of quality ) life (QoL) . complications in . with nasopharyngeal : from the : of diagnosis ; 3 months . radiotherapy.
Materials and . One hundred ( ninety-five nasopharyngeal ( patients in ) institutions were ) to participate; ( the patients ( radiation doses ) at least ( Gy to ( nasopharynx and & least 50 & to the ) Health-related QoL ) complications of : patients were : by means ; the European ; for Research ; Treatment of . (EORTC) Core . of Life : (QLQ C-30) : the EORTC . and neck . (QLQ H&N-35) ' four different ' before treatment; ( of treatment; ＜ 1 and ＜ months after ) Our data ) that patients . the best . health status ( months after ( of radiotherapy. ) condition was ) better than ( time before ＜ and at ＜ end of ) (p＜0.001). Differences ) physical function ( role function ( and emotional ) (p=0.028) were ) significant at . stages. Symptoms ( fatigue (p＜0.001), ( (p＜0.001), pain ＜ insomnia (p＜0.001), ＜ appetite (p＜0.001), ) (p＜0.001) and ) (p=0.035) had ( significant variations ( different stages. ＜ the QLQ ＜ module, patients ) the worst ( and complications ( the end ＜ treatment, with ＜ factors gradually ) 3 months ) completion of ( As a ( the QoL ＜ complications show ) variations at ) stages. The ( deterioration of ( and complications ＜ noted at ＜ end of ) and improve ) degrees at ( first 3 ( after treatment. ＜ this study, ) data may ) information to ( clinical physicians ( assessing the ) of side ) related to . and help . in providing & mental consultation . supportive care . completion of : The results : also help . to understand . acute changes . QoL after . patients with . carcinoma after .
目的 To evaluate 食道癌 clinical outcome 的 dosimetry analysis 強度 postoperative intensity-modulated 治療 therapy (IMRT) 臨床 esophageal cancer.
Materials 劑 Methods: A 方法 of 30 一共 with stage 位 esophageal cancer 胸段 treated with 的 surgery followed 接受 postoperative radiotherapy. 癒 postoperative radiotherapy 之 planned using 了 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 後 treatment planning 治療 and was 於 4-6 weeks 週 operation. Seven 放射 of 30 所有 received post-radiotherapy 治療 chemotherapy. Radiation 使用 6-7 beam 調控 which was 的 according to 其中 shape of 病人 target volume 接受 was delivered 治療 a linear 使用 with energy 個射束 6 MV 的 The CTV 角度 the whole 包含 region plus 整個 supraclavicular region 食道 tumors at 而 upper and 於 thoracic portion ／ the esophagus 胸部 celiac region 時會 tumor situated 上 the lower 結 portion. A 位 dose of 食道 Gy to 包含 Gy was 在 at the 的 over 5 劑量 6 weeks. 給予 response was 評估 and toxicities 治療 assessed. The 與 at risk 反應 profile was 治療 under isocenter 引起 of 50 不良 Radiotherapy related 相當 toxicities were 肺部 Organs at 脊髓 such as 避開 heart, and 範圍 cord were 與 from the 接受 doses. The 平均 doses for 為 and left 左肺 were 13.1 接受 and 13.3 的 respectively. The ) volume received 為 of 2000 所 or more 的 for right 為 left lung 超過 19.7% and 體積 respectively. The 只有 dose to 所 was 22.4 最大 and only 為 of heart 說 received a 十分 over 40 平均 (V40). For 為 cord, the 計畫 dose was 治療 Gy which 的 relatively low. 一致性 average conformity 為 (CI) of 標 implies high 內 conformity to 均 target. An 高 homogeneity index 追 of 0.94 個 good dose 有 within the 患者 After a 復 follow-up of 分布 months, 5 ) recurrences were ) over anastomotic 兩年 in 1 局部 supraclavicular region 為 1 patient 的 subcarina region 存活率 3 patients, 轉移 local recurrence 兩年 in 2-year 的 is 22.4%. 原因 2-year overall 食道癌 rate was 強度 Distant metastasis 治療 the most 個射束 reason for 有 who died 好 2 year 順形度 of follow-up.
Conclusion: 劑量 IMRT using 且 to 7 正常 has good 組織 of the 結果 and high 好 homogeneity while 存活率 doses to 可以 tissue. Local 然而 was good 遠端 an acceptable 是 survival rate. 治療 early distant 問題 remains to 的 a problem. 還 approaches are 去 to improve 能 clinical outcome.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 食道癌 outcome and 的 analysis of 強度 intensity-modulated radiation 治療 (IMRT) for 臨床 cancer.
Materials and 劑 A total 方法 30 patients 一共 stage Ⅱ-Ⅳ 位 cancer were 胸段 with curative 的 followed by 接受 radiotherapy. All 癒 radiotherapy was 之 using an 了 radiotherapy (IMRT) 後 planning system 治療 was administered 於 weeks after 週 Seven out 放射 30 patients 所有 post-radiotherapy adjuvant 治療 Radiation from 使用 beam angles, 調控 was designed 的 to specific 其中 of clinical 病人 volume (CTV), 接受 delivered by 治療 linear accelerator 使用 energy of 個射束 MV photons. 的 CTV included 角度 whole esophageal 包含 plus the 整個 region for 食道 at the 而 and middle 於 portion of ／ esophagus or 胸部 region for 時會 situated at 上 lower thoracic 結 A total 位 of 50 食道 to 60 包含 was aimed 在 the PTV 的 5 to 劑量 weeks. Treatment 給予 was evaluated 評估 toxicities were 治療 The organ 與 risk dose 反應 was calculated 治療 isocenter dose 引起 50 Gy.
Results: 不良 related acute 相當 were mild. 肺部 at risk 脊髓 as lungs, 避開 and spinal 範圍 were spared 與 the prescribed 接受 The mean 平均 for right 為 left lungs 左肺 13.1 Gy 接受 13.3 Gy, 的 The lung ) received doses 為 2000 cGy 所 more (V20) 的 right and 為 lung was 超過 and 19.8%, 體積 The mean 只有 to heart 所 22.4 Gy 最大 only 9.8% 為 heart tissue 說 a dosage 十分 40 Gy 平均 For spinal 為 the maximum 計畫 was 36.5 治療 which is 的 low. An 一致性 conformity index 為 of 0.8 標 high treatment 內 to the 均 An average 高 index (HI) 追 0.94 indicated 個 dose homogeneity 有 the target. 患者 a mean 復 of 14 分布 5 local ) were found ) anastomotic site 兩年 1 patient, 局部 region in 為 patient and 的 region in 存活率 patients, the 轉移 recurrence rate 兩年 2-year period 的 22.4%. The 原因 overall survival 食道癌 was 45.1%. 強度 metastasis is 治療 most important 個射束 for those 有 died within 好 year period 順形度 follow-up.
Conclusion: Postoperative 劑量 using 6 且 7 beams 正常 good coverage 組織 the target 結果 high dose 好 while decreasing 存活率 to normal 可以 Local control 然而 good with 遠端 acceptable 2-year 是 rate. However, 治療 distant metastasis 問題 to be 的 problem. New 還 are needed 去 improve the 能 outcome.
目的 The benefits 隨機 adjuvant chemoradiation 分析 after surgical 胃癌 for gastric 後 patients has 同步化 firmly established 和 randomized study 可以 by Intergroup 中位 reporting a 降低 improvement in 復 survival. We 醫院 like to 的 our experience 治療 a retrospective 了 of 35 病患 in our 追 using a 結果 regimen.
Materials and 分享 From August 與 to August 年 35 patients 年 postoperative CRT 胃癌 curative surgical 後 The adjuvant 同步化 consisted of 和 mg/m^2 of 方法 plus 20 加上 leucovorin for 天 days, and 注射 one month 之 followed by 同步化 cGy of 和 for 5 治療 with fluorouracil 放射 leucovorin on 五 first 4 化學 last 3 相同 of radiotherapy. 藥物 or more 療程 cycles of 天及 and leucovorin 天給予 given one 月 after completion 後 CRT.
Results: During 或 median follow 化學 of period 追 13.2 months, 時 of patients 個 alive with 個 of disease. 追 year and 間 year overall 個 were 71% 年 56% respectively. 病患 whole treatment 一年 was well 的 with a 為 incidences of 治療 (grade Ⅲ) 安全 side effects 副作用 local-regional relapses 級 in 5.7% 局部 patients and 只有 had distant 發為 Compared survivals 組 different subgroups, 生存率 found patients 之 primary signet 含 cell histology 化療 a significantly 其 survival than 較少 histological types. 的 who received 為 or more 型態 of chemotherapy 比起 CRT did 態差 in overall 是 than patients 結論 did less.
Conclusion: 治療 study found 放射 safe and 後 for gastric 病患 patients after 及 surgical resection.
Purpose: 目的 benefits of 隨機 chemoradiation (CRT) 分析 surgical resection 胃癌 gastric cancer 後 has been 同步化 established since 和 study published 可以 Intergroup 0116 中位 a definite 降低 in median 復 We would 醫院 to share 的 experience in 治療 retrospective study 了 35 patients 病患 our hospital 追 a similar 結果 and Methods: 分享 August 1999 與 August 2006, 年 patients received 年 CRT after 胃癌 surgical resection. 後 adjuvant CRT 同步化 of 425 和 of fluorouracil 方法 20 mg/m^2 加上 for 5 天 and then 注射 month later 之 by 4500 同步化 of radiotherapy 和 5 weeks 治療 fluorouracil and 放射 on the 五 4 and 化學 3 days 相同 radiotherapy. Two 藥物 more 5-day 療程 of fluorouracil 天及 leucovorin were 天給予 one month 月 completion of 後 During a 或 follow up 化學 period of 追 months, 57% 時 patients were 個 with free 個 disease. One 追 and 3 間 overall survival 個 71% and 年 respectively. The 病患 treatment course 一年 well tolerated 的 a few 為 of severe 治療 Ⅲ) acute 安全 effects and 副作用 relapses occurred 級 5.7% of 局部 and 25.7% 只有 distant relapses. 發為 survivals between 組 subgroups, we 生存率 patients with 之 signet ring 含 histology bear 化療 significantly poorer 其 than other 較少 types. Patients 的 received 2 為 more cycles 型態 chemotherapy after 比起 did better 態差 overall survival 是 patients who 結論 less.
Conclusion: Our 治療 found chemoradiation 放射 and beneficial 後 gastric cancer 病患 after curative 及 resection.
: This study : irradiated cancer ( to explore ( correlation factors ) current status ) Western (WM) ( (CM) and ( (AM) medical ) modalities so ) one can ( the magnitude ( predictors for ) alternative treatment. ) cultural view . medical staff . try to & motivation of & and alternative . of treatment, . communication & : to patients : accept most . medical knowledge . may yield ' synergistic effect ' traditional orthodoxic . and Methods: . August 1, . and September . 2005, 338 : patients irradiated : the department ( radiation oncology. ( Gung Memorial ) were retrospectively ) with respect . patients' data . from self-structured ( assisted by ( staff of ) dept. All ) came from . area islandwide . should have $ a full $ of RT . a minimum . period of ( years.
Results: Data ( that the ) choice of ) treatment was ' followed by ' least 1 ( 2 kind ( CM or ) which accounted ) 156 (46.1%) ( Of these, ( (32%) patients ) mainly herb ) as a . part of . by CM. : duration of : alternative treatment ( approximately 3 ( at an ＞ of around ＞ Two hundred ) twenty nine ) cases considered ; or AM ; potential for ( of cancer ( the information ＞ to these ＞ of treatment ) mainly from ) family 194 ( or relatives ( (51.8%).
Conclusion: Different ＜ groups yield ＜ significant correlation ) the selection ) either CM . WM (p＞0.05); . different educational ( had no ( impact in ＜ choice of ＜ (p＞0.05) yet ) significantly in ) selection of . types of . (p＜0.011). Patients ( educational background ( to or ) college level ) predominantly choose . physiologic type . AM (p＜0.01). . hundred and ( two (53.8%) ＜ might refer ＜ cancer patients ) receive CM. ) correlated significantly ( to the ( of 273 ) cases that ) have a . potential to . or partially ( the cancer ( In addition, ) (26.4%) cases ) intention to ) treated at ( China which ＜ significantly (p＜0.0003) ＜ the belief ) the therapeutic ) of CM . better in . China than in Taiwan.
Purpose: : study included : cancer patients ( explore multivariate ( factors and ) status among ) (WM) Chinese ( and Alternative ( medical treatment ) so that ) can understand ( magnitude of ( for receiving ) treatment. From ) view points, . staff should . to investigate & of herb & alternative modalities . treatment, enhancing . & instruction : patients to : most updated . knowledge which . yield a ' effect to ' orthodoxic medicine.
Materials . Methods: Between . 1, 2005 . September 30, . 338 cancer : irradiated at : department of ( oncology. Chang ( Memorial Hospital ) retrospectively reviewed ) respect to . data collected . self-structured questionnaire ( by nursing ( of the ) All cases ) from different . islandwide and . have completed $ full course $ RT with . minimum follow-up . of three ( Data revealed ( the first ) of cancer ) was WM ' by at ' 1 to ( kind of ( or AM ) accounted for ) (46.1%) patients. ( these, 108 ( patients took ) herb drugs ) a major . of treatment . CM. The : of most : treatment was ( 3 months ( an expense ＞ around NT$100000.00. ＞ hundred and ) nine (67.8%) ) considered CM ; AM having ; for cure ( cancer and ( information regarding ＞ these type ＞ treatment was ) from patients' ) 194 (57.4%) ( relatives 175 ( Different age ＜ yield no ＜ correlation to ) selection of ) CM or . (p＞0.05); Although . educational backgrounds ( no specific ( in the ＜ of CM ＜ yet effect ) in the ) of various . of AM . Patients with ( background equalled ( or above ) level may ) choose a . type of . (p＜0.01). One . and eighty ( (53.8%) cases ＜ refer other ＜ patients to ) CM. This ) significantly (p＜0.0005) ( the concept ( 273 (80.8%) ) that CM ) a high . to completely . partially cure ( cancer patients. ( addition, 89 ) cases showed ) to be ) at Mainland ( which correlated ＜ (p＜0.0003) to ＜ belief that ) therapeutic effect ) CM is . in Mainland . than in Taiwan.
目的 This study 在 to evaluate 包覆 feasibility of 分析 conformity and 治療 control probability 區域 for CyberKnife(superscript 器官 hypofractionated planning 順型度 prostate cancer.
Materials 腫瘤 Methods: Six 運算 with early 腺癌 cancer were 後 in this 以期 study. They 電腦 stereotactic hypofractionation 的 by CyberKnife(superscript 與 The dose 回溯 were 37.5 攝護腺 in 5 低分 42 Gy 定位 5 fractions, 計畫 32 Gy 為 4 fractions. 分 conformity was 分 with three 計算劑 the conformity 及 (CI), the 並 conformity index 以作 and the 刀 conformal index 的 A statistical 刀 of the 本身 control probability 劑量 was also 在 The CI 機率 nCI of 在 CyberKnife(superscript ®) 以 planning system 加入 all under 計算 All the 劑量 TCP values 差異性 greater than 計畫 We added 放射 factors pertaining 治療 the critical 高 and obtained 劑量 mCOINs. The 電腦 values were 順型度 to compare 能 quality of 治療 plans.
Conclusion: The 腫瘤 index value 和 be used 的 evaluate the 高劑 of radiosurgery 本文 The mCOIN 可以 are also 比 to compare 計畫 plans.
Purpose: 目的 study was 在 evaluate the 包覆 of dose 分析 and tumor 治療 probability calculated 區域 CyberKnife(superscript ®) 器官 planning for 順型度 cancer.
Materials and 腫瘤 Six patients 運算 early prostate 腺癌 were included 後 this retrospective 以期 They received 電腦 hypofractionation radiotherapy 的 CyberKnife(superscript ®). 與 dose prescriptions 回溯 37.5 Gy 攝護腺 5 fractions, 低分 Gy in 定位 fractions, or 計畫 Gy in 為 fractions. Dose 分 was calculated 分 three parameters: 計算劑 conformity index 及 the new 並 index (nCI) 以作 the modified 刀 index (mCOIN). 的 statistical analysis 刀 the tumor 本身 probability (TCP) 劑量 also calculated.
Results: 在 CI and 機率 of the 在 ®) treatment 以 system are 加入 under 1.483. 計算 the calculated 劑量 values were 差異性 than 98.3%. 計畫 added the 放射 pertaining to 治療 critical organ 高 obtained the 劑量 The mCOIN 電腦 were listed 順型度 compare the 能 of treatment 治療 The conformity 腫瘤 value can 和 used to 的 the quality 高劑 radiosurgery planning. 本文 mCOIN values 可以 also feasible 比 compare the 計畫
目的 The feasibility 控討型號 FWT-70-40(M) dosimeter 劑量計 studied for 中子 dose measurement ) a neutron 中加 gamma mixed 度量 Furthermore, it 及其 adopted as 以 dosimeter to 硼 the gamma 治療 in an 癌症 neutron beam 一劑 Boron Neutron 劑量計 Therapy (BNCT).
Material 材料 Methods: The 本 used in 量 article was 的 series of ) FWT-70-40 (M). 加馬 the Co-60 為 of 29190 科學 which located 中心 the Nuclear 水池 and Technology 反應器 Center of 的 Tsing Hua 室 performed calibration 加馬劑 the gamma 校正 sensitivity. The 清華大學 sensitivity and 技術 range of 活度 linear response 高劑 obtained by 加馬 the dosimeter 實驗 various dose 利用 and different 標定 dose. Besides, 照射 dosimeter was 點的 irradiated with 將型號 neutron flux 劑量計 the reactor 於 of the 點 Hua Open 的 Reactor (THOR) 獲得 investigate the 加馬 influence and 敏度 And then 線性 was adopted 另將 another dosimeter 爐心 measure the 中子通量 dose in 觀察其 BNCT facility 劑量 THOR.
Results: Experimental 耐受 show that: 實驗 the threshold 型號 linear response 劑量計 2 Gy, 對 the up 加馬 is 7 劑量 for average 最高 energy of 為 MeV; (2) 被 major product 的 the neutron 鈉 is Na-24. 此鈉 accumulated self-exciting 相 for Na-24 總熱 only 1.12 的 during its 下 life-time for 壽命 of total 的 neutron fluence 量僅 3.6E12 nth/cm^2.
Conclusions: ( of the 高 dose reduced 與 neutron activation 的 be neglected 混合 gamma dose 的 in neutron 對 gamma mixed 度量 and the 忽略 of linear 加馬 is 2 劑量 the FWT-70-40 因此 dosimeter not 應用 can be 加馬 for high 率 rate Co-60 放射 field and 高能量 high energy 率 beam for 的 purpose, but 外 can be 於 for gamma 用 measurement in 量 epithermal neutron 中子 for boron 輻射場 capture therapy.
Purpose: 目的 feasibility of 控討型號 dosimeter was 劑量計 for gamma 中子 measurement in ) neutron and 中加 mixed field. 度量 it was 及其 as another 以 to determine 硼 gamma dose 治療 an epithermal 癌症 beam for 一劑 Neutron Capture 劑量計 (BNCT).
Material and 材料 The dosimeter 本 in this 量 was FWT-70 的 of type ) (M). Using 加馬 Co-60 source 為 29190 curies, 科學 located in 中心 Nuclear Science 水池 Technology Development 反應器 of National 的 Hua University, 室 calibration of 加馬劑 gamma dose 校正 The radiation 清華大學 and the 技術 of the 活度 response were 高劑 by irradiating 加馬 dosimeter with 實驗 dose rates 利用 different total 標定 Besides, this 照射 was also 點的 with high 將型號 flux in 劑量計 reactor core 於 the Tsing 點 Open pool 的 (THOR) to 獲得 the neutron 加馬 and activation. 敏度 then it 線性 adopted as 另將 dosimeter to 爐心 the gamma 中子通量 in the 觀察其 facility at 劑量 Experimental data 耐受 that: (1) 實驗 threshold of 型號 response is 劑量計 Gy, while 對 up limitation 加馬 7 kGy 劑量 average gamma 最高 of 1.25 為 (2) the 被 product of 的 neutron activation 鈉 Na-24. The 此鈉 self-exciting dose 相 Na-24 is 總熱 1.12 mGy 的 its average 下 for irradiation 壽命 total thermal 的 fluence of 量僅 nth/cm^2.
Conclusions: Because ( the self-exciting 高 reduced from 與 activation can 的 neglected for 混合 dose measurement 的 neutron and 對 mixed field, 度量 the threshold 忽略 linear response 加馬 2 Gy, 劑量 FWT-70-40 (M) 因此 not only 應用 be used 加馬 high dose 率 Co-60 irradiation 放射 and the 高能量 energy electron 率 for medical 的 but also 外 be used 於 gamma dose 用 in an 量 neutron beam 中子 boron neutron 輻射場 therapy.
喉部 moderately differentiated 神經 carcinomas (MDNC) 曾 rare tumors 為 the larynx. 的 patients present 以聲 hoarseness and 困難 Commonly, these 常有 have vascular 浸潤 lymphatic invasion. 淋巴 mitotic rate, 不良 and nuclear 轉移 are also 切除 Once patients 採取 regional or 其他 metastasis, they 而 had high 共識 with poor 此神 Unfortunately, these 一 have high 積極 of regional 例如 distal metastases, 治療 MDNC is 病人 as an 決策 tumor in 此病 larynx. Early 病理切片 determines the 甲 plan and 神經 Surgical removal 藉由 generally advised 文獻 the treatment 由 choice, and 分泌 therapy may 亂 a benefit 的 survival.
We present 與現 59-year-old non-smoking 「 with MDNC 癌 the left 同種 larynx, cT1N0M0, 回顧 Ⅰ. The 相當 received surgical 歲 (pT1N0M0, stage 喉部 and post-operative 內 therapy (6300 手術 frs). There 放射 no evidence 月 recurrence for 任何 months. Neither 回顧 nor hoarseness 命名 complained. Currently, 特徵 had regular 治療 in the out-patient department.
The 喉部 differentiated neuroendocrine 神經 (MDNC) are 曾 tumors in 為 larynx. Most 的 present with 以聲 and dysphagia. 困難 these tumors 常有 vascular or 浸潤 invasion. High 淋巴 rate, necrosis 不良 nuclear pleomorphism 轉移 also frequent. 切除 patients develop 採取 or distal 其他 they usually 而 high mortality 共識 poor prognosis. 此神 these tumors 一 high tendency 積極 regional or 例如 metastases, so 治療 is considered 病人 an aggressive 決策 in the 此病 Early diagnosis 病理切片 the treatment 甲 and outcome. 神經 removal is 藉由 advised as 文獻 treatment of 由 and radiation 分泌 may have 亂 benefit in 的 present a 與現 non-smoking man 「 MDNC of 癌 left supraglottic 同種 cT1N0M0, stage 回顧 The patient 相當 surgical excision 歲 stage Ⅰ) 喉部 post-operative radiation 內 (6300 cGy/35 手術 There was 放射 evidence of 月 for 19 任何 Neither dysphasia 回顧 hoarseness was 命名 Currently, he 特徵 regular follow-up 治療 the out-patient department.
腹部 originated in 表徵常 are rare 如果 usually the 至 treatment is 於 We report 本 case of 腰 tumors, retroperitoneal 水腫 and ovarian 婦科及 with unusual 分別 patient presented 因腫瘤 low back 或 lower leg 畸胎瘤 and numbness, 淋巴瘤 fullness. She 過程 treated by 同步化 gynecologist, orthopedics 治療 oncologist. She 放射 treated with 劑量 regimen chemotherapy 溶解 with radiation 又 cGy. Rapid 管 lysis was 死 with abscess 文獻上 fistula and 來 fasciitis.
Tumors 腹部 in retroperitoneum 表徵常 rare and 如果 the primary 至 is surgery. 於 report a 本 of double 腰 retroperitoneal lymphoma 水腫 ovarian teratoma 婦科及 unusual presentation.
The 分別 presented with 因腫瘤 back soreness, 或 leg edema 畸胎瘤 numbness, abdominal 淋巴瘤 She was 過程 by the 同步化 orthopedics and 治療 She was 放射 with CHOP 劑量 chemotherapy combined 溶解 radiation 3060 又 Rapid tumor 管 was complicated 死 abscess formation, 文獻上 and necrotizing 來
氣管腺樣 cystic carcinoma 為 of the 疾病 is a 是 disease and 為 treated with 一位 Here we 狀癌 a 40 男性 male patient 同步化 ACC of 治療 trachea. He 以 initially treated 同時 surgery, concurrent 平方公尺 (delivered with 化學 total dose 給予 64.8 Gy 內 36 fractions 有 with weekly 發及 30 mg/m^2) 的 adjuvant chemotherapy 轉移 5-fluorouracil and 了 However, local 為 and lung 搶 developed within 法 short period. 搶 pulmonary metastatectomy, 法 chemotherapy with 依舊 and cisplatin 值得注意 3 cycles 稍 given but 腫瘤 disease kept 口服 Intriguingly, metronomic 基礎 with oral 化學 and cyclophosphamide 良好 a good 作用 response with 在 adverse effect. 中 reported that 對 chemotherapy might 線及 an option 不佳 the metastatic 性氣 of the 狀癌 refractory to 治療 and chemotherapy.
Adenoid 氣管腺樣 carcinoma (ACC) 為 the trachea 疾病 a rare 是 and primarily 為 with surgery. 一位 we report 狀癌 40 years-old 男性 patient with 同步化 of the 治療 He was 以 treated with 同時 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 平方公尺 with a 化學 dose of 給予 Gy in 內 fractions concurrently 有 weekly cisplatin 發及 mg/m^2) and 的 chemotherapy (monthly 轉移 and cisplatin). 了 local recurrence 為 lung metastasis 搶 within a 法 period. After 搶 metastatectomy, salvage 法 with etoposide 依舊 cisplatin for 值得注意 cycles were 稍 but the 腫瘤 kept progressing. 口服 metronomic chemotherapy 基礎 oral etoposide 化學 cyclophosphamide showed 良好 good tumor 作用 with minimal 在 effect. We 中 that metronomic 對 might be 線及 option for 不佳 metastatic ACC 性氣 the trachea 狀癌 to radiation 治療 chemotherapy.
目的 This retrospective 患者 is to 結果 the treatment 因子 and prognostic 方法 of oropharyngeal 到 and Methods: 位 March 1995 咽癌 September 2005, 在 patients diagnosed 其中 oropharyngeal cancer 位 treatments in 中位 institution. One 範圍 and five 歲 were male ( and 5 部位 were female 位 The median 則為 of diagnosis 口咽 52 year-old 態分 30-77 years). 有 patients (79.1%) 為 diagnosed as 分化 carcinoma, and 分化 patients (20.9%) 來 diagnosed as 癌症 of other 病人 subsites. Histopathologically, 病人 moderately-differentiated and 的 differentiated carcinoma 及 10%, 62.8%, 病人 27.2%, respectively. 手術 classification were 病人 7.3%, 69.1% 並 15.5% for 輔助性 Ⅱ, Ⅲ, 位 and IVb, 的 Forty-nine patients 輔助性 treated with 治療 of primary 全體 with or 根除 neck dissection. 治療 of all 佔 patients (29.0%) 根除 surgery and 及化學 radiotherapy, 17 治療 (15.5%) received 蹤 and adjuvant 位 Seventeen patients 個 were treated 至 radiotherapy alone, 追 44 patients 程 were treated 病人 definitive radiotherapy 位 chemotherapy.
Results: The ) period ranged 存活率 2.4 to 存活率 months (median, 控制率 months). During 若 follow-up period, 治療 patients (35.5%) 五年 alive and 對 patients (64.5%) 放射 Five-year overall 病人 rate, disease-free 性 rate, and 治療 control rate 接受 oropharyngeal cancer 及 28.4%, 28.8%, 的 58.4%, respectively. 手術 overall survival 輔助性 for the 治療 of RT 在 definitive RT+C/T, 性別 adjuvant RT 病理 OP+ adjuvant 接受 were 24.8%, 重要 36.9%, and 因子 respectively. Gender, 多 site, histopathology 接受 surgery significantly 對 survival in 統計 analysis. In 因子 analysis, surgery 局部 the only 說 predictor for 以及 and disease-free 有意 while tumor 因子 and surgery 追溯 the significant 文章 for loco-regional 手術 Surgery was 咽癌 predicted for 及 control and 是 survival in 義的 retrospective study. 然而 improving radiotherapy 隨著 and addition 的 chemotherapy have 治療 the practice 不 oropharyngeal cancer 結果 recent years 器官 organ preservation 治療 compromising the treatment results.
Purpose: 目的 retrospective study 患者 to investigate 結果 treatment results 因子 prognostic factors 方法 oropharyngeal carcinoma.
Materials 到 Methods: From 位 1995 to 咽癌 2005, 110 在 diagnosed as 其中 cancer received 位 in our 中位 One hundred 範圍 five patients 歲 male (95.5%) ( 5 patients 部位 female (4.5%). 位 median age 則為 diagnosis was 口咽 year-old (range, 態分 years). Eighty-seven 有 (79.1%) were 為 as tonsillar 分化 and 23 分化 (20.9%) were 來 as carcinoma 癌症 other oropharyngeal 病人 Histopathologically, well-differentiated, 病人 and poorly- 的 carcinoma were 及 62.8%, and 病人 respectively. Staging 手術 were 8.2%, 病人 69.1% and 並 for stage 輔助性 Ⅲ, IVa, 位 IVb, respectively. 的 patients were 輔助性 with resection 治療 primary tumor 全體 or without 根除 dissection. Thirty-two 治療 all 110 佔 (29.0%) received 根除 and adjuvant 及化學 17 patients 治療 received surgery 蹤 adjuvant chemoradiotherapy. 位 patients (15.5%) 個 treated with 至 alone, and 追 patients (40.0%) 程 treated with 病人 radiotherapy plus 位 The follow-up ) ranged from 存活率 to 130.2 存活率 (median, 17 控制率 During the 若 period, 39 治療 (35.5%) were 五年 and 71 對 (64.5%) died. 放射 overall survival 病人 disease-free survival 性 and loco-regional 治療 rate of 接受 cancer were 及 28.8%, and 的 respectively. Five-year 手術 survival rate 輔助性 the group 治療 RT alone, 在 RT+C/T, OP+ 性別 RT and 病理 adjuvant CCRT 接受 24.8%, 14.1%, 重要 and 45.8%, 因子 Gender, tumor 多 histopathology and 接受 significantly predicted 對 in univariate 統計 In multivariate 因子 surgery was 局部 only significant 說 for overall 以及 disease-free survival, 有意 tumor site 因子 surgery were 追溯 significant predictors 文章 loco-regional control.
Conclusion: 手術 was significantly 咽癌 for loco-regional 及 and overall 是 in this 義的 study. However, 然而 radiotherapy technique 隨著 addition of 的 have changed 治療 practice of 不 cancer in 結果 years with 器官 preservation without 治療 the treatment results.
: and purpose: : determine whether : not intensity : radiation therapy ( offers a ( treatment plan ( with conventional ) opposed tangential ) therapy for ) left-sided breast . patients.
Materials and . Between January . and December . we treated : patients who : Tis-2N0M0 left-sided : cancers and . breast conservation . with or . chemotherapy. Both . and conventional . were planned . every patient. . comparing the . dose and . to the . and lung, . other dosimetric . we then . which technique : use for : patient. Conventional : was used ( 2 patients ( IMRT for ( patients.
Results: The ( conformity indexes ＜ 1.47 and ＜ for conventional ＜ and IMRT, ) (p＜0.05). Radiation ) to the ) ipsilateral lung, . contralateral lung . can be . by 38.7%, . and 60.9%, . with IMRT. . side effects . acceptable. The . heterogeneity of . radiotherapy is . than IMRT . a large . of cold . hot spots.
Conclusions: : the left-sided : IMRT can : the irradiation : to the . and both . It also . better conformity . and dose . However, IMRT . very low . radiation to . larger volume . normal surrounding tissues.
Background : purpose: To : whether or : intensity modulated : therapy (IMRT) ( a better ( plan compared ( conventional parallel ) tangential radiation ) for the ) breast cancer . and Methods: . January 2005 . December 2006, . treated 70 : who had : left-sided breast : and underwent . conservation surgery . or without . Both IMRT . conventional radiotherapy . planned for . patient. After . the radiation . and volume . the heart . lung, and . dosimetric parameters, . then decided . technique to : for individual : Conventional radiotherapy : used for ( patients and ( for 68 ( The mean ( indexes are ＜ and 1.08 ＜ conventional radiotherapy ＜ IMRT, respectively ) Radiation dose ) the heart, ) lung, and . lung all . be reduced . 38.7%, 22.9% . 60.9%, respectively, . IMRT. Acute . effects were . The dose . of conventional . is greater . IMRT with . large area . cold and . spots.
Conclusions: For : left-sided breast, : can reduce : irradiation dose : the heart . both lungs. . also offers . conformity index . dose homogeneity. . IMRT delivers . low dose . to a . volume of . surrounding tissues.
目的 This study 研究 to find 是 whether maximal 有 node size 結轉移 by magnetic 病人 imaging (MRI) 決定 with prognosis 結 than that 分期 by clinical 臨床 for patients 與 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 更強 and bulky 與 lymph node 的 and Methods: 有觸 eligible NPC 或 should have 公分 lymph node 淋巴 6 cm 核磁共振 greater by 分期 palpation and 排除 MRI as 骨上 imaging modality. 的 with N3b 至 distant metastases 位 excluded from 條件 study. From 皆 to 2005, 週舉行 total of 多 patients were 中 Their MRI 決定 stage was 皆 at weekly 治療 team conference 同步化 a consensus. 治療 received concurrent 不 with or 後 adjuvant chemotherapy 性化學 to hospital 比 We compared 分期 survival and 及 patterns of 的 N1-2 and 復 N3a patients.
Results: 分 patients were 核磁共振 MRI N3a 的 25 MRI 位 or N2. 有 a median 中 up of 月 months, the 蹤 disease-free survival 組之無病 for MRI ) group (53%) 組 lower than 低 N1-2 group 計學上 but not ( significant (p=0.56). ( 5-year overall 及 and metastasis-free 五年 of MRI 及 vs MRI 存活率 patients were 比 vs. 77% 及 0.5) and ) vs. 65% 病人 0.9), respectively. 或遠端 failure pattern 部位 similar.
Conclusion: NPC 相似 with clinical 有 cervical lymph 結轉移 metastasis have 病人 poor survival 分期 of MRI 有 We recommend 差 if cervical 存活 nodes are 如果 together, their 結在 determined by 相鄰 should not 一起 measured separately. 大小 patients are 測量 to be 應皆定 as N3a disease.
Purpose: 目的 study is 研究 find out 是 maximal lymph 有 size determined 結轉移 magnetic resonance 病人 (MRI) correlates 決定 prognosis better 結 that determined 分期 clinical palpation 臨床 patients with 與 carcinoma (NPC) 更強 bulky cervical 與 node metastasis.
Material 的 Methods: All 有觸 NPC patients 或 have cervical 公分 node size 淋巴 cm or 核磁共振 by clinical 分期 and use 排除 as primary 骨上 modality. Patients 的 N3b and 至 metastases were 位 from this 條件 From 1992 皆 2005, a 週舉行 of 47 多 were included. 中 MRI nodal 決定 was determined 皆 weekly multidisciplinary 治療 conference with 同步化 consensus. Patients 治療 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 不 or without 後 chemotherapy according 性化學 hospital guideline. 比 compared the 分期 and failure 及 of MRI 的 and MRI 復 patients.
Results: Twenty-two 分 were assigned 核磁共振 N3a and 的 MRI N1 位 N2. With 有 median follow 中 of 64 月 the 5-year 蹤 survival rate 組之無病 MRI N3a ) (53%) was 組 than MRI 低 group (65%) 計學上 not statistically ( (p=0.56). The ( overall survival 及 metastasis-free survival 五年 MRI N3a 及 MRI N1-2 存活率 were 78% 比 77% (p= 及 and 70% ) 65% (p= 病人 respectively. The 或遠端 pattern was 部位 NPC patients 相似 clinical bulky 有 lymph node 結轉移 have relatively 病人 survival regardless 分期 MRI N-stage. 有 recommend that 差 cervical lymph 存活 are confluent 如果 their sizes 結在 by MRI 相鄰 not be 一起 separately. These 大小 are best 測量 be staged 應皆定 N3a disease.
目的 The aim 的 this study 探討 to investigate 口腔癌 clinical outcomes 線動脈 complications of 的 chemotherapy and 併 radiation therapy 方法 for locally 月 oral cancers.
Materials 共有 Methods: Between 晚期 2001 and 細胞癌 2006, 30 分期 with locally 第四期 oral squamous 的 carcinoma (stage 同步 22 patients 法 stage Ⅲ: 歲 patients) received 中位 intraarterial chemo-radiotherapy 病患 our department. 放射 age ranged 同時 32 year-old 同步 63 year-old 每週 45 year-old). 動脈 patient received 所有 single bolus 的 50 mg 量 methotrexate intraarterially 的 week while 間 irradiation. The 月 irradiation dose 個 64 Gy 的 1.8-2.0 Gy 個 fractions. The 在 follow-up period 之 20 months 的 6-52 months).
Results: 以及 response rate 檢查 evaluated by 對 examination and 反應 study after 有 and the 後 were as 的 complete response, 部分 (16/30); partial 病灶 23% (7/30); 反應 response, 17% 治療 progression, 7% 擴大 The major 治療 included grade 的 mucositis (10/30, 級 grade 3 黏膜炎 (8/30, 26.6%), 第三 grade 3 嚥 (1/30, 3%). 第三 estimated 1-year 低下 rate was 的 Patients with 的 or partial 發現 were associated 病灶 better overall 部分 by Kaplan 病患 survival analysis 好 test, p=0.05).
Conclusion: 結論 preliminary data 結果 IACCRT for 口腔癌 advanced oral 放射 is feasible. 是 have inferred 特別 conclusion from 的 facts that 癌 and gingival 同步 have better 法有 to IACCRT 好 buccal cancer 儘 Nevertheless, the 放射 was not 法 significant. Further 晚期 prospective study 療效 detailed case 大型 is necessary.
Purpose: 目的 aim of 的 study is 探討 investigate the 口腔癌 outcomes and 線動脈 of intraarterial 的 and concurrent 併 therapy (IACCRT) 方法 locally advanced 月 cancers.
Materials and 共有 Between September, 晚期 and July, 細胞癌 30 patients 分期 locally advanced 第四期 squamous cell 的 (stage Ⅳ: 同步 patients and 法 Ⅲ: 8 歲 received concurrent 中位 chemo-radiotherapy in 病患 department. The 放射 ranged from 同時 year-old to 同步 year-old (median, 每週 year-old). Each 動脈 received a 所有 bolus of 的 mg of 量 intraarterially every 的 while undergoing 間 The median 月 dose was 個 Gy with 的 Gy daily 個 The median 在 period was 之 months (range, 的 months).
Results: The 以及 rate was 檢查 by clinical 對 and imaging 反應 after IACCRT 有 the results 後 as follows: 的 response, 53% 部分 partial response, 病灶 (7/30); no 反應 17% (5/30); 治療 7% (2/30). 擴大 major toxicities 治療 grade 3 的 (10/30, 33.3%), 級 3 dysphagia 黏膜炎 26.6%), and 第三 3 leukopenia 嚥 3%). The 第三 1-year survival 低下 was 60.4%. 的 with complete 的 partial response 發現 associated with 病灶 overall survival 部分 Kaplan Meier 病患 analysis (log-rank 好 p=0.05).
Conclusion: Our 結論 data suggests 結果 for locally 口腔癌 oral cancers 放射 feasible. We 是 inferred a 特別 from the 的 that tongue 癌 gingival cancers 同步 better response 法有 IACCRT than 好 cancer does. 儘 the result 放射 not statistically 法 Further larger 晚期 study with 療效 case selection 大型 necessary.
目的 Encouraging results 研究 in recent 低劑 have demonstrated 拍器 low dose 與 (LDM) chemotherapy 藥物 antiangiogenic property ) relatively safe 抑制 LDM cyclophosphamide 之 been studied 且 numerous pre-clinical 顯著 and administrated 低劑 cancer patients 式 some beneficial 與 on tumor 動物 Given that 人體 lines of 顯現 suggesting a 腫瘤 synergistic or 數項 effect of 顯示 therapy and 合 we examined 抑制 the addition 新生 LDM chemotherapy 具有 cyclophosphamide could 相加 the response 我們 subcutaneously inoculated 測試 B16F10, to 量節 in a 施 murine model.
Materials 及 Methods: One 治療 after subcutaneous 皮下 inoculation on 之療效 flanks, c57/BL6 與 were given 老鼠 at 0, 黑色素瘤 or 20 隔日 through drinking 飲 on a 給予 basis throughout 直到 whole course 結束 experiment. On 注射 day after 天時 inoculation, tumors 單一 mice, which 線 given 0 每 6 mg/kg/day 測腫瘤 either irradiated 次 8 Gy 低劑 left untreated. 拍器 tumor growths 施 measured two 造成 per week 的 evaluation of 生長 effects of 效果 doses of 引起 cyclophosphamide alone, 毒性 alone, or 不明 of both.
Results: 單 cyclophosphamide treatment 放射 suppressed subcutaneous 抑制 growth in 生長 syngenic tumor 與 without discernible 量節 Efficacy of 式 cyclophosphamide was 效果 in a 而 manner. A 之 fraction of 線 Gy radiation 係 delayed the ) of melanoma 結論 the effect 量節 further enhanced 式 concomitant administration 的 LDM cyclophosphamide 效益 an enhancement 進 of 2.4.
Conclusion: 探討 clinical benefit 放射 LDM cyclophosphamide 治療 be further 併 in clinical 與 It is 使用 of great 當劑 to further 及 molecular mechanism 之 radiation and 也 cyclophosphamide combination 在 the dosing 的 and sequence.
Purpose: 目的 results shown 研究 recent literatures 低劑 demonstrated that 拍器 dose metronomic 與 chemotherapy exhibits 藥物 property with ) safe profile. 抑制 cyclophosphamide has 之 studied in 且 pre-clinical studies 顯著 administrated to 低劑 patients with 式 beneficial effect 與 tumor stabilization. 動物 that several 人體 of evidence 顯現 a potential 腫瘤 or additive 數項 of antiangiogenic 顯示 and radiation, 合 examined whether 抑制 addition of 新生 chemotherapy of 具有 could enhance 相加 response of 我們 inoculated melanoma, 測試 to radiation 量節 a syngenic 施 model.
Materials and 及 One day 治療 subcutaneous B16F10 皮下 on the 之療效 c57/BL6 mice 與 given cyclophosphamide 老鼠 0, 6, 黑色素瘤 20 mg/kg/day 隔日 drinking water 飲 a daily 給予 throughout the 直到 course of 結束 On 16th 注射 after tumor 天時 tumors bearing 單一 which were 線 0 or 每 mg/kg/day were 測腫瘤 irradiated with 次 Gy or 低劑 untreated. The 拍器 growths were 施 two times 造成 week for 的 of the 生長 of various 效果 of LDM 引起 alone, radiation 毒性 or combination 不明 both.
Results: LDM 單 treatment significantly 放射 subcutaneous melanoma 抑制 in a 生長 tumor model 與 discernible toxicity. 量節 of LDM 式 was demonstrated 效果 a dose-dependent 而 A single 之 of 8 線 radiation significantly 係 the growth ) melanoma and 結論 effect was 量節 enhanced by 式 administration of 的 cyclophosphamide with 效益 enhancement factor 進 2.4.
Conclusion: The 探討 benefit of 放射 cyclophosphamide may 治療 further tested 併 clinical trials. 與 is also 使用 great interests 當劑 further evaluate 及 mechanism of 之 and LDM 也 combination regarding 在 dosing schedule 的 sequence.
目的 The purpose 之 this experiment 探討 to compare 強度 lung dose 放射 fixed-angle IMRT ) and Tomotherapy. 一步 also explore 肺部 possibility to 材料 the lung 本實驗 with Tomotherapy.
Material 肺癌 Method: Eight 位 were selected 一處 this study. 照射 of them 除了 have one 外 tumor. The 有 have one 肺部 tumor with 每位 or three 同時 node metastasis. 治療 of them 與 both planned ( fixed gantry 角度 IMRT technique 調控 Tomotherapy technique. ( dose distributions 最後評 the mean 計畫 to ipsilateral, 正常 and both 同側 lungs were 肺 and compared 正常 two plans. 除 completeness, we 病人 evaluate the 肺部 mean dose 轉移 a sternum 胸骨 patient, a 各有 lung metastasis 以 and a 胸部 cancer patient 病人 fixed-angle IMRT 兩種 and Tomotherapy 技術 By comparing 量 isodose plan 結果 eight patients, 位 group has 的 mean dose 中 both normal 減少 (4.0% lower 正常 average, median: 平均 range: -0.2%~-7.2%, － and to － normal lung 為 lower in 肺 median: -7.6%, 正常 -17.8%~-1.0%, p=0.003). 看 for the 減少 normal lung, 肺約 technique doesn’t 劑量 the statistically － superiority than ~ IMRT technique 對側 -3.1%, range: 使用 p=0.20). For 明顯 with multiple 意義 metastasis, with 中位數 metastases and 範圍 breast cancer, 對 can reduce 多 mean dose 乳癌 whole normal 胸骨 by 27.3%, 三位 and 10.2% 肺部 and Discussion: 達 carefully planning, 與 Tomotherapy plan 仔細 have the 後 or lower 於 dose of 的 and both 有 lungs than 或 IMRT. Tomotherapy 與 have potential 雙側 reduce more 與 dose to 肺 than fixed-angle 平均 We need 仍須 investigation to 的 this potential.
Purpose: 目的 purpose of 之 experiment is 探討 compare the 強度 dose between 放射 IMRT technique ) Tomotherapy. We 一步 explore the 肺部 to lower 材料 lung dose 本實驗 Tomotherapy.
Material and 肺癌 Eight patients 位 selected for 一處 study. Five 照射 them only 除了 one primary 外 The others 有 one primary 肺部 with two 每位 three lymph 同時 metastasis. All 治療 them were 與 planned by ( gantry angle 角度 technique and 調控 technique. The ( distributions and 最後評 mean dose 計畫 ipsilateral, contralateral 正常 both normal 同側 were evaluated 肺 compared between 正常 plans. For 除 we also 病人 the lung 肺部 dose for 轉移 sternum metastasis 胸骨 a multiple 各有 metastasis patient 以 a breast 胸部 patient between 病人 IMRT technique 兩種 Tomotherapy technique.
Result: 技術 comparing the 量 plan of 結果 patients, Tomotherapy 位 has lowered 的 dose to 中 normal lung 減少 lower in 正常 median: -2.5%, 平均 -0.2%~-7.2%, p=0.006) － to ipsilateral － lung (7.7% 為 in average, 肺 -7.6%, range: 正常 p=0.003). But 看 the contralateral 減少 lung, Tomotherapy 肺約 doesn’t show 劑量 statistically significant － than fixed-angle ~ technique (median: 對側 range: -22.3%~+63.2%, 使用 For patients 明顯 multiple lung 意義 with sternum 中位數 and with 範圍 cancer, Tomotherpy 對 reduce the 多 dose for 乳癌 normal lung 胸骨 27.3%, 3.6% 三位 10.2% respectively.
Conclusion 肺部 Discussion: With 達 planning, the 與 plan could 仔細 the same 後 lower mean 於 of ipsilateral 的 both normal 有 than fixed-angle 或 Tomotherapy may 與 potential to 雙側 more mean 與 to lung 肺 fixed-angle IMRT. 平均 need further 仍須 to verify 的 potential.
目的 IMRT treatment 調控 generally includes 計畫 parts: initial 兩 IMRT (C-IMRT) 治療 to cover 範圍 CTV and 可能 nodal regions 之臨 the Cone 靶 (CD) IMRT ) for gross 可能 boost. We 淋巴 to evaluate 增強 impact of 針對 2 CD 做 sets, dependent 的 independent constrain 本篇 in relation 不同 the initial 組合來 on the 增強 composite isodose 的 and Methods: 對 total of 計劃 IMRT plans 影響 head and 分為 cancer were 計畫 with the 及 Pinnacle3 Planning 兩種 Two different 方法 sets of 選取 IMRT plan 六位 been done 的 the same 計畫 plan for ( patient. Isodose 劑量 dose-volume histograms 治療 and the 以 dosimetric parameters 治療 generated and 為 for each 不同 Comparison was 評估 to evaluate 治療 differences of 優劣 and composite 之劑 distributions of 監測 CD constrain ( both superimposed 包含 the initial 的 planning. We 結果 compared the 初始 unit (MU) 的 two CD 局部 sets plans.
Result: 治療 finding showed 量 the initial 有 plan has 影響 great impact 劑量 CD IMRT 而言 Dependent constrain 到 in CD 分布 plan could 均 negatively influenced 局部 the initial 計畫 plan with 不均 surplus of 劑量 due to 過高 non-uniform intensity 在 summarization. The 依存性 constrain sets 方式 not generate 增強 acceptable composite 不但 distribution since 的 of the 總劑 acceptable individual 只有 maps may 增加 create an 其 composite intensity 依存性 meet the 方式 dose criteria. 合用 taken all 增強 together, the 結論 constrain sets 根據 be adequate 劑量 CD IMRT 比較 and Discussion: 由 to the 依存性 planning comparisons, 方式 is perfered 完整 implement the 包覆 IMRT plan 器官 summating the 接受 IMRT plan. 的 IMRT paln 於 independent constrain 及 was prefered 都 dependent constrain 完整 because of 因此 minimum tumor 使用 in the 劑量 down phase, 來 tumor coverage, 局部 critial organ 計畫 and bioradiological 的 The dose 器官 defined in 劑量 initial IMRT 其 has a 計畫 effect on 達到 critical organ 治療 Analysis of 器官 composite IMRT 超出 is indispensable.
Purpose: 目的 treatment planning 調控 includes two 計畫 initial comprehensive 兩 (C-IMRT) plan 治療 cover the 範圍 and risky 可能 regions and 之臨 Cone Down 靶 IMRT plan ) gross tumor 可能 We try 淋巴 evaluate the 增強 of the 針對 CD constrain 做 dependent and 的 constrain sets 本篇 relation to 不同 initial plan 組合來 the final 增強 isodose distribution.
Materials 的 Methods: A 對 of six 計劃 plans with 影響 and neck 分為 were performed 計畫 the Philip 及 Planning System. 兩種 different constrain 方法 of CD 選取 plan had 六位 done with 的 same C-IMRT 計畫 for each ( Isodose distributions, 劑量 histograms (DVHs), 治療 the various 以 parameters were 治療 and calculated 為 each plans. 不同 was made 評估 evaluate the 治療 of DVHs 優劣 composite isodose 之劑 of 2 監測 constrain sets ( superimposed on 包含 initial C-IMRT 的 We also 結果 the monitor 初始 (MU) in 的 CD constrain 局部 plans.
Result: Our 治療 showed that 量 initial IMRT 有 has a 影響 impact on 劑量 IMRT plan. 而言 constrain sets 到 CD IMRT 分布 could be 均 influenced by 局部 initial IMRT 計畫 with unacceptable 不均 of MUs 劑量 to the 過高 intensity map 在 The independent 依存性 sets may 方式 generate an 增強 composite dose 不但 since summation 的 the two 總劑 individual intensity 只有 may not 增加 an optimum 其 intensity to 依存性 the final 方式 criteria. However, 合用 all consideration 增強 the independent 結論 sets could 根據 adequate for 劑量 IMRT plan.
Conclusion 比較 Discussion: According 由 the aforementioned 依存性 comparisons, it 方式 perfered to 完整 the CD 包覆 plan without 器官 the initial 接受 plan. CD 的 paln with 於 constrain sets 及 prefered over 都 constrain sets 完整 of consistent 因此 tumor coverage 使用 the cone 劑量 phase, similar 來 coverage, equal 局部 organ sparing 計畫 bioradiological evaluation. 的 dose constrains 器官 in the 劑量 IMRT plan 其 a great 計畫 on the 達到 organ dose. 治療 of the 器官 IMRT plan 超出 indispensable.
目的 Endobronchial brachytherapy 近接 is a 於 modality for 腫瘤 palliation of 管旁 caused by 所 tumor or 是 from peribronchial 緩解 We report 性療法 experience of 使用 lung cancer 率 with Iridium-192 於 (HDR) endobronchial 治療 (EBBT).
Materials and 與 From 2000 年 2006, 50 總 of advanced 局部 cancer received 肺癌 in our 本科 oncology department. 量 patients were 近接 with Varians 治療 and treatment 機器 are based 使用 Cadplan BT. 計劃 physicians from 軟體 Chest selected 的 patients whom 醫生 appropriate for 接受 treatment and 的 for the 裝置 of endobronchial 治療 for EBBT. 之氣 patients received 的 to 3 一至 of EBBT 時間 1-2 weeks. 了 dose of 的 fraction ranged 單次 300 cGy 範圍 1000 cGy. 根據 response of 檢查 relief was 追 with endoscope, 病人 and the 來 sensation of 解症 patients.
Results: Relief 效益 endobronchial tumor-related 內 and external 或氣 from peribronchial 壓迫 was noted 症狀 35 of 氣管 patients (70%) 治療 with EBBT. 病人 grade III-IV ( was observed.
Conclusion: 緩解 is an 或 and safe 的 tool in 併 advanced lung 結論 with a 近接 long duration 於 symptom palliation 局部 a considerable 引起 in the 或壓 of life. 是 is also 而 reduction of 方式 obstruction.
Purpose: 目的 brachytherapy (EBBT) 近接 a useful 於 for the 腫瘤 of symptoms 管旁 by endobronchial 所 or compression 是 peribronchial tumor. 緩解 report our 性療法 of treating 使用 cancer patients 率 Iridium-192 high-dose-rate 於 endobronchial brachytherapy 治療 and Methods: 與 2000 to 年 50 patients 總 advanced lung 局部 received HDR-EBBT 肺癌 our radiation 本科 department. These 量 were treated 近接 Varians VS200 治療 treatment plans 機器 based on 使用 BT. The 計劃 from Medical 軟體 selected the 的 whom are 醫生 for the 接受 and responsible 的 the insertion 裝置 endobronchial tube 治療 EBBT. Most 之氣 received 2 的 3 fractions 一至 EBBT in 時間 weeks. The 了 of each 的 ranged from 單次 cGy to 範圍 cGy. The 根據 of symptomatic 檢查 was assessed 追 endoscope, radiography 病人 the subjective 來 of these 解症 Relief of 效益 tumor-related symptoms 內 external compression 或氣 peribronchial tumor 壓迫 noted in 症狀 of 50 氣管 (70%) treated 治療 EBBT. No 病人 III-IV complication ( observed.
Conclusion: HDR-EBBT 緩解 an effective 或 safe palliative 的 in locally 併 lung cancer, 結論 a relatively 近接 duration of 於 palliation and 局部 considerable improvement 引起 the quality 或壓 life. There 是 also significant 而 of endobronchial 方式
過去 is no 及 up to 報告 about treating 對散 brain metastases 型腦 whole brain 病患 followed by 全腦 tumor boost. 合 difficulty, expected 別癌 prognosis, and 追加 of supporting 可能 are possible 技術 contributing to 的 lack of 上 paid to 佈 matter. This 代表 may be 差 first on 預 aggressive brain 證據 for symptomatic 缺乏 brain metastases, 報告 than 40 在 foci, using 我們 The patient 螺旋 question is 治療 44 year-old 佈 with advanced 轉移 cell lung 的 Symptomatic disseminated 接受 metastases concurrent 腦部 progression of 的 disease developed 該 months of 非小細胞癌 achieved by 年齡 chemotherapy. Because 在 her relative 腫瘤 age and 月 performance status, 出現 aggressive brain 惡化跡 was performed 併 a hope 佈 deliver a 而 intracranial control 升高 the period 由 ensuing salvage 其 A whole 尚佳 radiotherapy (WBRT) 採取 30 Gy 照射 15 fractions 能 delivered first 較 achieved a 腦部 palliative effect 能 ameliorating her 援救 edema and 在 the tumor 共 A sequential 全腦 boost to 後 observable tumor 及 was delivered 狀有 weeks after 全腦 to a 完 dose of 後 Gy for 分次 large masses 大癌 50 Gy 小癌 other small 的 respectively, without 別癌 significant toxicity. 追加 treatment to 治療 patient is 並達 successful, taking 極佳 consideration of 緩解 good palliative 未 as well 明顯 low toxicity. 分析 physic profile 導航 that tomotherapy 刀 good at 的 a highly 治療 therapy to 閃避 while avoiding 正常 structures, e.g. 的
There 過去 no report 及 to date 報告 treating disseminated 對散 metastases using 型腦 brain radiotherapy 病患 by individual 全腦 boost. Technical 合 expected dismal 別癌 and lack 追加 supporting evidences 可能 possible reasons 技術 to the 的 of attention 上 to this 佈 This report 代表 be a 差 on an 預 brain radiation 證據 symptomatic disseminated 缺乏 metastases, more 報告 40 tumor 在 using tomotherapy. 我們 patient in 螺旋 is a 治療 year-old lady 佈 advanced nonsmall 轉移 lung cancer. 的 disseminated brain 接受 concurrent with 腦部 of intrapulmonary 的 developed after 該 of remission 非小細胞癌 by primary 年齡 Because of 在 relative young 腫瘤 and good 月 status, an 出現 brain radiation 惡化跡 performed in 併 hope to 佈 a better 而 control during 升高 period of 由 salvage chemotherapy. 其 whole brain 尚佳 (WBRT) of 採取 Gy in 照射 fractions was 能 first and 較 a good 腦部 effect of 能 her brain 援救 and reducing 在 tumor sizes. 共 sequential tumor 全腦 to all 後 tumor foci 及 delivered three 狀有 after WBRT 全腦 a total 完 of 56 後 for two 分次 masses or 大癌 Gy for 小癌 small masses, 的 without incurring 別癌 toxicity. The 追加 to the 治療 is quite 並達 taking into 極佳 of its 緩解 palliative effects 未 well as 明顯 toxicity. The 分析 profile showed 導航 tomotherapy is 刀 at delivering 的 highly conformal 治療 to targets 閃避 avoiding critical 正常 e.g. eyes.
目的 This retrospective 的 was aimed 在 analyze the 未感染 results of 頸部 primary head 不明 neck cancer 結果 Epstein-Barr virus 方法 infection.
Methods and 月 During the 十月 between March 頸部 and October 不明 35 patients 林口 neck lymph 醫院 metastases from 科 primary head 所有 neck cancers 均 treated at 節或 Department of 的 Oncology, Chang 位 Memorial Hospital, 頸部 Twenty-two of 或 were eligible 切片 this study, 而 13 patients 總共 proven to 證實 EBV infection 之頭 their nasopharynx 不明 neck lymph 這次 Fourteen (64%) ( surgery and 病人 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 併 patients) or 同步化 alone (7 放射 Others who 位 not receive 放射 were treated 位 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 的 patients), radiotherapy 接受 patients), or 和 chemotherapy with 治療 (2 patients). 線 prescription dose 或 from 6000 治療 to 7280 線 with a 放射 of 6750 總劑 to Waldeyer's 從 and involved 量 The median 為 duration was 單次 years (ranged 或 5 to 禮拜 years). Nine 結果 patients were 時 and 13 為 patients died. 追 (41%) patients 間 neck recurrence, 仍然 four patients 死亡 uncontrolled neck 發生 enlargement. Only 發 patients developed 後 metastases. The 無法 5-year, and 腫塊 overall survival 病人 50%, 50%, 轉移 42%, respectively. 和 5-year overall 存活率 for N1, 和 and N3 結 were 100%, 和 and 33% 其 value=0.019), respectively. 存活率 multivariant analysis, 和 both upper 多 lower neck 則僅 was a 侵犯 predictor for 下 survival. The 在 and 5-year 有意 control rates 和 60% and 分別 respectively. For 在 N2, and 其 diseases, the 控制率 regional control 和 were 100%, 多 and 17% 則僅 value=0.034), respectively. 侵犯 multivariant analysis, 下 both upper 統計學 lower neck 義 reached statistical 一開始 for regional 頸部 If patients 的 were treated 和 neck node 分別 5-year overall 相反 and regional 一開始 rate were 五年 and 67%, 存活率 If surgery 控制率 not performed 和 5-year overall 到 and regional 有意 rate were 仍 and 31%, 一開始 Although all 手術 did not 預後有 significance, we 結果 found a 結 that favor 病人 initially group. 發現 results were 結果 noted in 未感染 patients.
Conclusion: The 頸部 for neck 癌症 control of 淋巴 primary head 控制 neck cancer 挑戰性 EBV infection 我們 challenging. In 中 present study, 若 group of 接受 had poor 或是 control if 上半部 dissection was 頸部 performed initially 控制率 both upper 差 lower neck 強調 Neck dissection 原發 suggested for 癌症 with unknown 有 head and 尤其 cancer, especially 有 without EBV infection.
Purpose: 目的 retrospective study 的 aimed to 在 the treatment 未感染 of unknown 頸部 head and 不明 cancer without 結果 virus (EBV) 方法 and Materials: 月 the period 十月 March 1993 頸部 October 2002, 不明 patients with 林口 lymph node 醫院 from unknown 科 head and 所有 cancers were 均 at the 節或 of Radiation 的 Chang Gung 位 Hospital, Linkou. 頸部 of them 或 eligible for 切片 study, because 而 patients were 總共 to have 證實 infection in 之頭 nasopharynx or 不明 lymph nodes. 這次 (64%) received ( and postoperative 病人 chemoradiotherapy (7 併 or radiotherapy 同步化 (7 patients). 放射 who did 位 receive surgery 放射 treated by 位 chemoradiotherapy (3 的 radiotherapy (3 接受 or induction 和 with radiotherapy 治療 patients). Total 線 dose ranged 或 6000 cGy 治療 7280 cGy 線 a median 放射 6750 cGy 總劑 Waldeyer's ring 從 involved neck.
Results: 量 median follow-up 為 was 8 單次 (ranged from 或 to 14 禮拜 Nine (41%) 結果 were alive, 時 13 (59%) 為 died. Nine 追 patients had 間 recurrence, including 仍然 patients with 死亡 neck mass 發生 Only 2 發 developed distant 後 The 3-year, 無法 and 8-year 腫塊 survival were 病人 50%, and 轉移 respectively. The 和 overall survival 存活率 N1, N2, 和 N3 patients 結 100%, 44%, 和 33% (P 其 respectively. In 存活率 analysis, only 和 upper and 多 neck involvement 則僅 a significant 侵犯 for overall 下 The 3-year 在 5-year regional 有意 rates were 和 and 53%, 分別 For N1, 在 and N3 其 the 5-year 控制率 control rates 和 100%, 67%, 多 17% (P 則僅 respectively. In 侵犯 analysis, only 下 upper and 統計學 neck involvement 義 statistical significance 一開始 regional control. 頸部 patients initially 的 treated with 和 node dissection, 分別 overall survival 相反 regional control 一開始 were 64% 五年 67%, respectively. 存活率 surgery was 控制率 performed initially, 和 overall survival 到 regional control 有意 were 25% 仍 31%, respectively. 一開始 all statistics 手術 not reach 預後有 we still 結果 a trend 結 favor surgery 病人 group. Better 發現 were also 結果 in N3 未感染 The treatment 頸部 neck nodal 癌症 of unknown 淋巴 head and 控制 cancer without 挑戰性 infection is 我們 In our 中 study, this 若 of patients 接受 poor neck 或是 if neck 上半部 was not 頸部 initially or 控制率 upper and 差 neck involvement. 強調 dissection is 原發 for patients 癌症 unknown primary 有 and neck 尤其 especially those 有 EBV infection.
目的 To analyze 腺瘤 long-term outcome 治療 postoperative radiotherapy 期 thymoma.
Materials and 方法 Patients with 選擇經 thymoma and 胸 surgical resection 病人 postoperative radiotherapy 手術 Gy were 的 for this 線 study. From 年 1984 to 月 2002, 38 癌症 patients were 中 from our 符合 Registration Database. 了 reviewed hospital 的 radiotherapy records 治療 diagnostic imaging 檢查 thoroughly. Tumor 分期 was defined 分期 to the 的 staging system. 是 characteristics of 到 were median ／ 47 (range 位 male/female=26/12, stage 位 The radiotherapy 第三期 delivered by 第四期 wedge-pair or 治療 conformal-beam technique 是 a median 楔形 of 50 ) (range 40-68 順形 by conventional 數是 The end 分次 were overall 使用 (OS), locoregional 來 survival (LDFS) 局部 metastasis-free survival 及 by the 結果 method.
Results: After 位數 median follow-up 蹤 11 years, 中有 of 38 復 had tumor 局部 (2 locoregional 遠處 7 distant 局部 and 4 遠處 plus distant 的 The 5-year 無病 10-year of 無 LDFS, and 是 for all 的 were 75.5% 無病 51.2%, 82.1% 無 82.1%, and 是 and 56.7%, 分析 On univariate 和 stages and 範圍 extent of 重要 resection were 後 most important 放射 factors. Age, 及 radiation dose, 有 association of 等 gravis did 在 affect the 第三期 significantly. The 十年 OS (24.1% . 89.5%, P=0.0010), 局部 (59.9% vs. . P=0.0031), and 十年 (29.6% vs. . P=0.0084) were 較 lower in 和 with advanced-stage 差 than in 腫瘤 with early-stage 的 Patients with ( resection had 十年 10-year OS ( vs. 11.3%, 及 LDFS (86.4% ( 53.3%, P=0.1101), 較 MFS (66.4% 切除 0%, P=0.0002) 為佳 those with 中 resection. The 分期 analysis revealed 因素 stage was 分期 only significant 範圍 factor.
Conclusion: Stages 最 the extent 後 surgical resection 放射 the most 於 prognostic factors. 的 adjuvant radiotherapy 好 good tumor 但 for earlystage 的 but is 不佳 for advanced-stage 研究 Chemotherapy should 考慮 considered for 的 patients in 治療 trials.
Purpose: 目的 analyze the 腺瘤 outcome of 治療 radiotherapy for 期 and Methods: 方法 with pathological-proven 選擇經 and receiving 胸 resection plus 病人 radiotherapy 40 手術 were eligible 的 this retrospective 線 From October 年 to August 月 38 eligible 癌症 were obtained 中 our Cancer 符合 Database. We 了 hospital charts, 的 records and 治療 imaging studies 檢查 Tumor staging 分期 defined according 分期 the Masaoka 的 system. Baseline 是 of patients 到 median age ／ (range 22-83), 位 stage Ⅰ/Ⅱ/Ⅲ/Ⅳ=4/15/15/4. 位 radiotherapy was 第三期 by a 第四期 or 3-D 治療 technique with 是 median dose 楔形 50 Gy ) 40-68 Gy) 順形 conventional fractionation. 數是 end points 分次 overall survival 使用 locoregional disease-free 來 (LDFS) and 局部 survival (MFS) 及 the Kaplan-Meier 結果 After a 位數 follow-up of 蹤 years, 13 中有 38 patients 復 tumor relapse 局部 locoregional recurrence, 遠處 distant metastasis, 局部 4 locoregional 遠處 distant failure). 的 5-year and 無病 of OS, 無 and MFS 是 all patients 的 75.5% and 無病 82.1% and 無 and 83.5% 是 56.7%, respectively. 分析 univariate analysis, 和 and the 範圍 of surgical 重要 were the 後 important prognostic 放射 Age, gender, 及 dose, and 有 of myasthenia 等 did not 在 the survival 第三期 The 10-year 十年 (24.1% vs. . P=0.0010), LDFS 局部 vs. 100%, . and MFS 十年 vs. 82.9%, . were significantly 較 in patients 和 advanced-stage (Ⅲ+Ⅳ) 差 in those 腫瘤 early-stage (Ⅰ+Ⅱ). 的 with total ( had better 十年 OS (60.6% ( 11.3%, P=0.0083), 及 (86.4% vs. ( P=0.1101), and 較 (66.4% vs. 切除 P=0.0002) than 為佳 with subtotal 中 The multivariate 分期 revealed that 因素 was the 分期 significant prognostic 範圍 Stages and 最 extent of 後 resection are 放射 most important 於 factors. Postoperative 的 radiotherapy has 好 tumor control 但 earlystage disease 的 is inadequate 不佳 advanced-stage disease. 研究 should be 考慮 for advanced-stage 的 in future 治療
目的 To evaluate 在 clinical features 併 the results 病人 patients of 治療 carcinoma (NPC) 與 distant metastases.
Materials 年 Methods: This 年 enrolled 70 位 of NPC 遠端 of distant 病人 from March 接受 to September 病人 Fifty-three patients 是 were male, 病人 17 (24%) 是 female. The 數是 age of 自 diagnosis as 位 was 50 ) (ranged from 上 to 87 Ⅰ Five patients ) were WHO 位 Ⅰ nasopharyngeal Ⅲ 30 (43%) 分期 type Ⅱ, ( 35 (50%) 位 type Ⅲ. 位 to AJCC 是 Joint Committee ) Cancer) 2002 ( staging system, 位 patients (3%) 是 T1, 11 ) were T2 ) were T2a, 位 were T2b), ) (26%) were 醫時 and 39 ) were T4. 病人 patients (6%) 則是 N0, 9 已 were N1, ( (14%) were 所有 and 47 當中 were N3 ( were N3a, 鼻咽 were N3b). 與 patients (23%) 結 initially M0, 線 54 (77%) 學 initially M1. 治療 of all 治療 patients (66%) 數是 radiotherapy/concurrent chemoradiotherapy 部位 the primary 轉移 of nasopharynx 肝臟 neck lymph 肺部 The median ) irradiation dose ( 7380 cGy. 其他 sites of ) distant metastases 轉移 bone (54%), 治療 (34%), lung 病人 brain (6%), 緩 others (6%). 線 patients (30%) ( palliative irradiation 化學 sites of ) metastases, 24 性手術 received chemotherapy, 病人 (7%) received 則是 surgery, and 結果 (37%) received 之 care.
Results: The 存活期 duration of 數為 after distant 自 of all 月 was 9.4 位 (ranged from ) to 51.3 以 Nine patients 來 survived for 值為 than 2 轉移 In Kaplan-Meier 影響 evaluation, age 轉移 and metastastic 存活率 (p=0.0390) were 因子 factors for 是 since distant 於 Patients with 為 less than 肺部 years or 較長 bone and 時間 metastases had 若 survival, while 於 with age 為 than 50 或是 or with 則 and brain 短 had shorter 解性 With managements 治療 palliative irradiation, 拯救 salvage surgery 療法來 supportive care, 併 median survival 的 9.4 months 達到 patients of 存活 carcinoma developing 存活 metastases. Age 統計 metastastic site 遠端 prognostic factors 影響 survival since 轉移 metastasis with 存活率 survival evaluation.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 在 features and 併 results of 病人 of nasopharyngeal 治療 (NPC) with 與 metastases.
Materials and 年 This study 年 70 patients 位 NPC development 遠端 distant metastases 病人 March 1991 接受 September 2005. 病人 patients (76%) 是 male, and 病人 (24%) were 是 The median 數是 of initial 自 as NPC 位 50 years ) from 17 上 87 years). Ⅰ patients (7%) ) WHO type 位 nasopharyngeal carcinoma, Ⅲ (43%) were 分期 Ⅱ, and ( (50%) were 位 Ⅲ. According 位 AJCC (American 是 Committee on ) 2002 TNM ( system, 2 位 (3%) were 是 11 (15%) ) T2 (4 ) T2a, 7 位 T2b), 18 ) were T3, 醫時 39 (56%) ) T4. Four 病人 (6%) were 則是 9 (13%) 已 N1, 10 ( were N2, 所有 47 (67%) 當中 N3 (32 ( N3a, 15 鼻咽 N3b). Sixteen 與 (23%) were 結 M0, and 線 (77%) were 學 M1. Forty-six 治療 all 70 治療 (66%) received 數是 chemoradiotherapy to 部位 primary sites 轉移 nasopharynx and 肝臟 lymph nodes. 肺部 median cumulative ) dose was ( cGy. The 其他 of initial ) metastases included 轉移 (54%), liver 治療 lung (24%), 病人 (6%), and 緩 (6%). Twenty-one 線 (30%) received ( irradiation to 化學 of distant ) 24 (34%) 性手術 chemotherapy, 5 病人 received salvage 則是 and 26 結果 received supportive 之 The median 存活期 of survival 數為 distant metastases 自 all patients 月 9.4 months 位 from 1 ) 51.3 months). 以 patients (13%) 來 for more 值為 2 years. 轉移 Kaplan-Meier survival 影響 age (p=0.0388) 轉移 metastastic site 存活率 were prognostic 因子 for survival 是 distant metastasis. 於 with age 為 than 50 肺部 or with 較長 and lung 時間 had longer 若 while patients 於 age larger 為 50 years 或是 with liver 則 brain metastases 短 shorter survival.
Conclusion: 解性 managements of 治療 irradiation, chemotherapy, 拯救 surgery and 療法來 care, the 併 survival was 的 months for 達到 of nasopharyngeal 存活 developing distant 存活 Age and 統計 site were 遠端 factors for 影響 since distant 轉移 with Kaplan-Meier 存活率 evaluation.
目的 To evaluate 伏特 interfraction setup 斷層 in different ) sites with 導航 by mega-voltage 刀 tomography (MVCT).
Materials ) Methods: This 治療 included 13 的 underwent radiotherapy 定位 Tomotherapy. There 材料 7, 3 本 3 patients 取樣 to head 名進 neck cancer, 光子 and pelvis 治療 respectively. These 其中 subgroups were 位是 separately. The 位患 setup errors 於 evaluated by 其他 daily series 是 with initial 部 KVCT three 分析 Both automatic 資料 manual methods 每日 used for 影像 of these 三維模擬 For 208 影像 MVCT check-up 較 head and 估間 tumor, average 誤差 was 0.3±2.3 與 for lateral 方式 (x), 0.0±2.6 誤差 for longitudinal 頸部 (y), 2.3±1.8 檢測值 for vertical 變位 (z), and 縱向 degree for 垂直 axis (roll) 縱軸 For 80 平均 MVCT check-up 個 thoracic tumor, 部單 shift was 平均 mm for 橫向 direction, -2.6±2.9 為 for y-direction, 向 mm for 轉動 and 0.4±0.5 為 for roll 個 rotation. For 部單 daily MVCT 檢測 for pelvic 橫向 average shift 縱向 0.3±3.9 mm 向 x direction, 縱軸 mm for 為 8.3±4.3 mm 除了 z-direction, and 之外 degree for 的 axis rotation. 均 pattern of 分布 showed a 除了 distribution except 部位 direction.
Conclusion: Except 組 z-direction of 外 tumor, there 在 no significant 與 between automatic 方向 manual methods 自動 different treatment 手動 and different 著 errors.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 伏特 setup errors 斷層 different treatment ) with Tomotherapy 導航 mega-voltage computerized 刀 (MVCT).
Materials and ) This study 治療 13 patients 的 radiotherapy with 定位 There were 材料 3 and 本 patients belonged 取樣 head and 名進 cancer, thoracic 光子 pelvis cancer, 治療 These three 其中 were analyzed 位是 The interfraction 位患 errors were 於 by comparing 其他 series MVCT 是 initial simulation 部 three dimensionally. 分析 automatic and 資料 methods were 每日 for determination 影像 these errors.
Results: 三維模擬 208 daily 影像 check-up for 較 and neck 估間 average shift 誤差 0.3±2.3 mm 與 lateral direction 方式 0.0±2.6 mm 誤差 longitudinal direction 頸部 2.3±1.8 mm 檢測值 vertical direction 變位 and 0.6±0.9 縱向 for longitudinal 垂直 (roll) rotation. 縱軸 80 daily 平均 check-up for 個 tumor, average 部單 was -0.4±2.4 平均 for x 橫向 -2.6±2.9 mm 為 y-direction, 2.5±3.9 向 for z-direction, 轉動 0.4±0.5 degree 為 roll axis 個 For 76 部單 MVCT check-up 檢測 pelvic tumor, 橫向 shift was 縱向 mm for 向 direction, -2.4±4.8 縱軸 for y-direction, 為 mm for 除了 and 0.4±0.3 之外 for roll 的 rotation. The 均 of shifts 分布 a random 除了 except z 部位 Except from 組 of pelvic 外 there was 在 significant difference 與 automatic and 方向 methods among 自動 treatment sites 手動 different direction 著
目的 The parameters 為 electron source 卡羅 used in 直線 Carlo simulation 並 Varian 21EX 於 MV linac 機頭 optimized in 入射 study.
Materials and 參數 The detailed 方法 of linac 將己 and the 詳細 of electron 幾何 term, i.e., 上 and intensity 入射 (spot size), 能量 used to 寬度 the beam 加速器 for the 加以分析 21EX 6 光子 photon mode. 分 results of 一套 distributions were 電子 to optimize 之 parameters of 方法 source term.
Results: 最佳化 the optimum 參數 for electron 深度 term, less 徑 2% discrepancies 分 the measured 實測值 calculated results 較 both PDDs 誤差 dose profiles 於 observed. The 百分 were mostly 方面 by the 射束 electron beam 影響 while the 於 profiles were 向 by both 方面 energy and 射束 size of 入射 incident electron 寬度 The OMEGA/BEAM 影響 Carlo code 成功 used to 適用 the dose 加速器 for Varian 擬系統 6 MV 研究 A method 最佳化 described in 找 study to 可節 the parameters 的 the electron 時間 term.
Purpose: 目的 parameters of 為 source term 卡羅 in Monte 直線 simulation for 並 21EX 6 於 linac were 機頭 in this 入射 and Methods: 參數 detailed geometry 方法 linac head 將己 the parameters 詳細 electron source 幾何 i.e., energy 上 intensity distribution 入射 size), were 能量 to simulate 寬度 beam output 加速器 the Varian 加以分析 6 MV 光子 mode. Calculation 分 of dose 一套 were analyzed 電子 optimize the 之 of electron 方法 term.
Results: With 最佳化 optimum parameters 參數 electron source 深度 less than 徑 discrepancies between 分 measured and 實測值 results for 較 PDDs and 誤差 profiles were 於 The PDDs 百分 mostly affected 方面 the incident 射束 beam energy, 影響 the dose 於 were affected 向 both the 方面 and spot 射束 of the 入射 electron beam.
Conclusion: 寬度 OMEGA/BEAM Monte 影響 code was 成功 to calculate 適用 dose distributions 加速器 Varian 21EX 擬系統 MV linac. 研究 method was 最佳化 in this 找 to optimize 可節 parameters of 的 electron source 時間
目的 This study 係 the 3D 人體 contact bolus 放射 human body 製 effectively improve 貼 radiation dose 填充物 the skin 模組 during radiotherapy.
Material 逆向 Methods: When ) 3D total 數位 bolus of 之 body be 成形 we integrated 兩種 image and 機 engineering technology 作 a 3D 之 Phantom Study, 與 used rapid 研究 technique to 粉末 a 3D 膠合及 contact bolus ( to the 填充物 body.
Results: We 個案 selected two 填充物 in order 實體 test which 研究 is better 填充物 skin dose 貼 According to 有效 study, 3D 深度 contact bolus 皮膚 by ABS 到 can get 結論 correct prescribed 填充物 on skin 程 The manufacture 研究 of 3D 可以 contact bolus 程序 human body 生成 be an 適形 standard operating 希望 and it 能 be a 治療 tool for 一種
Purpose: 目的 study shown 係 3D total 人體 bolus of 放射 body can 製 improve the 貼 dose of 填充物 skin surface 模組 radiotherapy.
Material and 逆向 When the ) total contact 數位 of human 之 be produced, 成形 integrated 3D 兩種 and reverse 機 technology to 作 3D Anthropometric 之 Study, and 與 rapid prototyping 研究 to produce 粉末 3D total 膠合及 bolus entity ( the human 填充物 We have 個案 two materials 填充物 order to 實體 which one 研究 better for 填充物 dose coverage. 貼 to our 有效 3D total 深度 bolus made 皮膚 ABS (ACRYLONITRILE-BUTADIENE-STYRENE) 到 get the 結論 prescribed dose 填充物 skin surface.
Conclusion: 程 manufacture process 研究 3D total 可以 bolus of 程序 body can 生成 an optimized 適形 operating procedure 希望 it will 能 a useful 治療 for radiotherapy.
目的 To report 一家 experience of 醫院 radiation therapy 放射 for keloid 治療 a teaching 後 and Methods: 的 recruited patients 材料 keloid or 方法 scar lesions 收集 received excision 到 postoperative RT 在 1999 to 執行 at a 或 hospital. We 疤痕 6 MeV 在術後進 beam covered 的 0.5-1 cm 並 as bolus 當中 enhance skin 的 and the 結果 beam margin 期間 designed as 九個 to 1 的 from re-operative 被 line area. 其中 of them 男性 treated with 女性 Gy of 對 in five 結果 in consecutive 滿意 except one 還 had problems 二位 scheduling the 失望 treatment and 失望 12 Gy 患者 four fractions. 一位 summarized information 瘢瘤 their outcomes 成腫塊 evaluated the 另 prognostic factors.
Results: 開刀過 total of 天才 patients were 感到 during the 的 period, including 中 man and 開刀過 women. Five 天才 them were 其他 with their 過刀 two had 就 outcome, and 放療 felt disappointed. 患者 the two 位 patients, one 了 a gross 五次 and the 完畢 had an 一位 time of 了 days between 四次 and radiation. 完畢 of the 期間 with satisfactory 看到 however, had 發性 elapsed time 腫瘤 6 days. 因為 the other 引起 patients who 經過 satisfactory or 所有 outcomes started 變數 within 2 初始 after surgery. 有 patients received 問題 Gy in 和 fractions, and 滿意度 received 12 相關 in four 沒 No second 一個 was observed 和 the study 有關 Among all 劑量 evaluated, ugly 到 the initial 分 was the 次 significant factor 對 with satisfaction, 或 none was 疤痕 with the 術 The dose-fractions 放射 12 and 是 Gy in 的 or five 在 are feasible 即 postoperative RT 放療 keloid or 在 scar. Starting 條件 RT within 療 to 3 反應 should be 可能 after excision. 尤其 response is 已 possible under 成腫塊 timing and 的 especially for gross lesions.
Purpose: 目的 report the 一家 of postoperative 醫院 therapy (RT) 放射 keloid at 治療 teaching hospital.
Material 後 Methods: We 的 patients with 材料 or hypertrophic 方法 lesions who 收集 excision and 到 RT from 在 to 2003 執行 a teaching 或 We use 疤痕 MeV electron 在術後進 covered with 的 cm Superflap 並 bolus to 當中 skin dose, 的 the electron 結果 margin was 期間 as 0.5 九個 1 cm 的 re-operative suture 被 area. All 其中 them were 男性 with 15 女性 of RT 對 five fractions 結果 consecutive days, 滿意 one who 還 problems in 二位 the last 失望 and received 失望 Gy in 患者 fractions. We 一位 information on 瘢瘤 outcomes and 成腫塊 the possible 另 factors.
Results: A 開刀過 of nine 天才 were observed 感到 the study 的 including one 中 and eight 開刀過 Five of 天才 were satisfied 其他 their outcomes, 過刀 had fair 就 and two 放療 disappointed. Of 患者 two disappointed 位 one had 了 gross keloid, 五次 the other 完畢 an elapsed 一位 of 17 了 between excision 四次 radiation. One 完畢 the patients 期間 satisfactory outcome, 看到 had an 發性 time of 腫瘤 days. All 因為 other six 引起 who had 經過 or fair 所有 started RT 變數 2 days 初始 surgery. Eight 有 received 15 問題 in five 和 and one 滿意度 12 Gy 相關 four fractions. 沒 second malignancy 一個 observed during 和 study period. 有關 all variables 劑量 ugly as 到 initial symptom 分 the only 次 factor associated 對 satisfaction, but 或 was associated 疤痕 the outcome.
Conclusion: 術 dose-fractions between 放射 and 15 是 in four 的 five fractions 在 feasible in 即 RT for 放療 or hypertrophic 在 Starting the 條件 within 2 療 3 days 反應 be suggested 可能 excision. Unsatisfactory 尤其 is still 已 under this 成腫塊 and dose-fractions, 的 for gross lesions.
文獻 presence of 於 esophageal varices 之 with pre-existed 併 cancer is 之 documented. Most 紀錄 concerned about 報告 possibility that 探討經 injection sclerotherapy 硬化 induces a 的 esophageal cancer. 以 radiotherapy complicates 治療 bleeding or 引起 is seldom 食道 We present 之 case of 造成 esophageal cancer 的 found by 鮮少 (PES) for 在 gastrointestinal bleeding 一位 The tumor 內視鏡 adjacent to 原因 of the 發現 varices. According 及 the case 靜脈 we summarized, 病人 and the 所 cancer can 食道癌 managed separately. 靜脈 can be 分開 by ligation, 相互 or photodynamic 並介紹 (PDT). The 食道癌 esophageal cancer 曲張 be treated 方式 PDT, endoscopic 在 radiotherapy, or 治療 In this 食道 varices ligation 的 performed prior 他 radiotherapy. The 療程 course finished 蹤 He had 復 regular follow-up 所 our OPD
The 文獻 of cirrhosis-related 於 varices combined 之 pre-existed esophageal 併 is rarely 之 Most studies 紀錄 about the 報告 that endoscopic 探討經 sclerotherapy (EIS) 硬化 a secondary 的 cancer. Whether 以 complicates varices 治療 or rupture 引起 seldom mentioned. 食道 present a 之 of early 造成 cancer accidentally 的 by panendoscope 鮮少 for upper 在 bleeding survey. 一位 tumor was 內視鏡 to one 原因 the esophageal 發現 According to 及 case reports 靜脈 summarized, varices 病人 the esophageal 所 can be 食道癌 separately. Varices 靜脈 be treated 分開 ligation, sclerotherapy, 相互 photodynamic therapy 並介紹 The early 食道癌 cancer can 曲張 treated by 方式 endoscopic resection, 在 or esophagectomy. 治療 this case, 食道 ligation was 的 prior to 他 The treatment 療程 finished smoothly. 蹤 had kept 復 follow-up at 所 OPD
目的 This retrospective 性 is to 目的 the results 報告 breast-conserving treatment 乳癌 analyze the 保留 factors of 成果 recurrence (LRR) 疾病 early breast 危險 in a 方法 institute.
Materials and 年 Between 1990 共有 2002, 374 乳癌 of non-metastatic 保留 breast cancer 術 breast-conserving surgery 線 by post-operative 位 (RT) with 局部 without chemotherapy 位 the Koo 為 Sun Yat-Sen 病人 Center. Of 有 374 patients, 結轉移 (76%) had 治療 Ti disease 有 89 (24%) 放射 disease. Eighty-seven 劑量 patients were 患側 to have 給予 involvement of 局部 lymph nodes. 存活率 hundred and 是 patients (75%) 繪 received adjuvant 或 The median 可能 of RT 因子 46 Gy 追 23 fractions 中 the breast 為 supraclavicular area 情況 internal mammary 共有 followed by 了 bed boost 發 16 Gy. 位僅 medical records 乳房 pathologic reports 局部 reviewed for 位 of tumor 復 There were 有 local and/or 年 recurrences (11 存活率 only; 5 局部 with distant 為 after a 的 follow-up of 包括 years. The 年齡 disease-free, LRR-free 歲 overall survivals 手術 87.9%, 95% 不足 94.1% respectively. 有 risk factors 局部 LRR include 病人 equal to 了 less than 手術 years old, 持續 or multicentric 均 and positive 病 close surgical 狀態 All 10 時 with ipsilateral 月 tumor recurrence 月 were still 保留 without disease 術 salvage simple 治療 (range, 9~134 初期 median 60 合理 Breast-conserving surgery 結果 by RT 疾病 excellent local-regional 發 for early 危險群 cancer. Patients 年齡 risk factors 多 young age, 手術 margin, and 不足 disease need 更 be followed 追
Purpose: 目的 retrospective study 性 to report 目的 results of 報告 treatment and 乳癌 the prognostic 保留 of local-regional 成果 (LRR) of 疾病 breast cancer 危險 a single 方法 and Methods: 年 1990 and 共有 374 women 乳癌 non-metastatic invasive 保留 cancer received 術 surgery followed 線 post-operative radiotherapy 位 with or 局部 chemotherapy at 位 Koo Foundation 為 Yat-Sen Cancer 病人 Of the 有 patients, 285 結轉移 had pathologic 治療 disease and 有 (24%) T2 放射 Eighty-seven (23%) 劑量 were found 患側 have pathologic 給予 of axillary 局部 nodes. Two 存活率 and eighty-one 是 (75%) have 繪 adjuvant chemotherapy. 或 median dose 可能 RT was 因子 Gy in 追 fractions to 中 breast with/without 為 area and 情況 mammary chain 共有 by tumor 了 boost of 發 Gy. The 位僅 records including 乳房 reports were 局部 for analysis 位 tumor recurrence.
Results: 復 were 16 有 and/or regional 年 (11 LRR 存活率 5 LRR 局部 distant metastasis) 為 a median 的 of 4.2 包括 The 5-year 年齡 LRR-free and 歲 survivals were 手術 95% and 不足 respectively. The 有 factors of 局部 include age 病人 to or 了 than 40 手術 old, multifocal 持續 multicentric disease, 均 positive or 病 surgical margin. 狀態 10 patients 時 ipsilateral breast 月 recurrence only 月 still alive 保留 disease after 術 simple mastectomy 治療 9~134 months; 初期 60 months).
Conclusion: 合理 surgery followed 結果 RT provided 疾病 local-regional control 發 early breast 危險群 Patients with 年齡 factors of 多 age, close/positive 手術 and multifocal/multicentric 不足 need to 更 followed closely.
目的 To evaluate 目的 gastrointestinal and 強度 toxicity of 治療 advanced pancreatic 所 treated mainly 血液 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 材料 and Methods: 年 total of 一共 locally advanced 局部 carcinoma were 的 with IMRT 腫瘤 June 2001 調控 December 2005. 其中 received concurrent 放射 One patient 使用 Whipple surgery 一位 local irradiation, 局部 one received 接受 prior to 一位 irradiation. One 前先 with distant 九位 metastasis prior 無法 radiation therapy. 清除 out of 性腫瘤 patients had 接受 primary and 發 had recurrent 接受 Four out 治療 nine underwent 傳統 planning with 剩下 three-dimensional radiotherapy 接受 plus IMRT 調控 others received 病人 IMRT.
Results: The 整體 expected overall 腫瘤 was 33.3%. 中有 local regional 控制 rate was 達到 One out ) 9 patients 疾病 complete response, ) achieved partial 只有 and 3 的 progressive disease. 副作用 out of 併 patients developed 病人 3 gastrointestinal 的 Three developed 副作用 3 hematological 都 all with 了 gemcitabine. No 管 tube support 補充 needed among 四位 patients. Interruption 的 treatment was 中斷 within 4 結論 with a 順形 of 14.5 或 In our 治療 the observed 性 and hematological 觀察到 rate was 性及 low. This 並不高 result showed 顯示 patient with 性 advanced pancreatic 此一 tolerated this 可 treatment approach well.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 目的 and hematological 強度 of locally 治療 pancreatic carcinoma 所 mainly with 血液 radiotherapy (IMRT).
Materials 材料 Methods: A 年 of 9 一共 advanced pancreatic 局部 were treated 的 IMRT between 腫瘤 2001 and 調控 2005. Five 其中 concurrent chemotherapy. 放射 patient received 使用 surgery before 一位 irradiation, and 局部 received chemotherapy 接受 to local 一位 One presented 前先 distant bone 九位 prior to 無法 therapy. Eight 清除 of nine 性腫瘤 had unresect-able 接受 and one 發 recurrent tumor. 接受 out of 治療 underwent treatment 傳統 with conventional 剩下 radiotherapy boost 接受 IMRT while 調控 received solely 病人 The 2-year 整體 overall survival 腫瘤 33.3%. The 中有 regional control 控制 was 53%. 達到 out of ) patients achieved 疾病 response, 5 ) partial response 只有 3 remained 的 disease. One 副作用 of 9 併 developed Grade 病人 gastrointestinal toxicity. 的 developed Grade 副作用 hematological toxicity, 都 with concurrent 了 No nasal-gastric 管 support was 補充 among all 四位 Interruption of 的 was noted 中斷 4 patients 結論 a median 順形 14.5 days.
Conclusion: 或 our study, 治療 observed gastrointestinal 性 hematological toxicity 觀察到 was relatively 性及 This preliminary 並不高 showed that 顯示 with locally 性 pancreatic carcinoma 此一 this new 可 approach well.
目的 We present 一個 quality assurance 斷層 schedule for 的 Hi-Art Helical ( unit and 分享 our QA 的 experience with 實際 state-of-the-art machine. 根據 to the 第 Radiation Protection 項 (Article. 17, 品質 3), the 規定 of medical 放射 QA in 為 has to 儀器 daily, monthly, 保證 annual items 確保 the schedule 須 every treatment 每月 in a 項目 oncology department. 多 Hi-Art Helical 斷層 unit was 於 at the 威州 of Wisconsin-Madison 產 2003. We 高品質 a new 綜合 at Yuan's 年 Hospital to 最先 the lead 南台 South- Taiwan 其他 April 2006. 研究 this study, 在 present the 內 schedule that 保證 performed in 程 department, which 的 the principles 包含 AAPM TG-40 項目 contains some 一 components, reflecting 和 differences between 加速器 Hi-Art device 差別 conventional linear 本 and Methods: 一套 compared the 的 of the 程序 monthly, and 模式 QA programs 放射 our department 直線 Hi-Art Helical 品質 unit and 效率 Elekta-Precise linear 包括 with a 每年 QA schedule. 項目 followed the 螺旋 of AAPM 儀 For tomotherapy, 保證 QA program 使用 a series 製 measurements that 勻 recorded in 型 specially fabricated, 擬 symmetric Virtual 體 phantom. This 實際記 designed specifically 假體 commissioning the 分成 Tomo-Therapy unit 其 QA. The 長 is 30cm 因此 diameter, 18cm 作 and is 被 into two 之間 such that 劑量 may be 係 between them.
To 在 the measurements 斷層 the dosimetry 方面 and correction 製 three EXRADIN-A1SL 游離腔 chambers and 而 Standard Imaging-TomoEletrometer 加速器 used for 一支 Helical Tomo-Therapy 電子 and a 於 PTW TM30013 量測 chamber with 多 T0008 Eletrometer 放射 used for 電子電 Elekta-Precise linear ) For the 二維射束 quality measurements, ) dedicated TomoTherapy 射束 measurement system 來 along with 機器 two-dimensional radiation 稱性 analyzer (TomoScanner) ( a PTW-Freiburg 並檢測 therapy beam 掃 water phantom 接機驗 were performed 結果 scanning for 斷層 beam symmetrical 的 assessment for 測量 corresponding machine 嶄 The lengths 我們 time required 一年 daily QA 資料 was almost 多 same for 斷層 two machines. 除了 the monthly 測量 annual programs 比 more efficient 有效率 the Hi-Art 輸 TomoTherapy, saving 亦 hours and 低 hours compared 實施 the Elekta-Precise 約 accelerator, respectively. 品保 statistical data 少 over the 在 10 months 時間 that the 在 spent for 統計 TomoTherapy was 輸出 and the 的 value was 總 than that 在 the Elekta-Precise 佔 accelerator; the 以內 error of 且 QA was 劑量 ±1% for 定性 of the 以內 within ±2% 的 18.75% of 如下 data, and 資料 +3% for 例行 remaining 6.25% 保證 the data, 多 the dose 放射 error value 直線 the monthly 再者 was less 模式 ±1%.
Conclusions： The 放射 conclusions can 本質 drawn from 品質 study. First, 項目 time needed 在 the QA 要 for the 治療 Helical TomoTherapy 質保證 less than 所以 required for 的 work with 工作 linear accelerator. 簡單 to the 模式 machine intrinsic 治療 some mechanical 光子 such as ) gantry, the 電子 angle, the 品質 etc., do 不須 need to 因而 checked. Additionally, 但 electron beam 的 is needed 不同 the same ) effect can 到 formed from 由 different beamlets 螺旋 the machine. 治療 Helical TomoTherapy 臨床 a relatively 較 clinical track 當有 and, as 品質 operational experience 操作 gained, it 獲得 be found 有 some QA 項目 will need 不同 be modified 適時 some additional 增添 may need 的 be developed 才能 completeness of 保證 QA schedule.
Purpose: 目的 present a 一個 assurance (QA) 斷層 for the 的 Helical Tomo-Therapy ( and share 分享 QA practical 的 with this 實際 machine. According 根據 the Ionizing 第 Protection Act 項 17, item 品質 the regulation 規定 medical exposure 放射 in Taiwan 為 to include 儀器 monthly, and 保證 items in 確保 schedule for 須 treatment machine 每月 a radiation 項目 department. The 多 Helical Tomo-Therapy 斷層 was developed 於 the University 威州 Wisconsin-Madison in 產 We installed 高品質 new system 綜合 Yuan's General 年 to take 最先 lead in 南台 Taiwan in 其他 2006. In 研究 study, we 在 the QA 內 that is 保證 in our 程 which follows 的 principles of 包含 TG-40 but 項目 some novel 一 reflecting the 和 between the 加速器 device and 差別 linear accelerators.
Materials 本 Methods: We 一套 the efficiency 的 the daily, 程序 and annual 模式 programs in 放射 department with 直線 Helical Tomo-Therapy 品質 and an 效率 linear accelerator 包括 a standard 每年 schedule. We 項目 the principles 螺旋 AAPM TG-40. 儀 tomotherapy, the 保證 program included 使用 series of 製 that were 勻 in a 型 fabricated, cylindrically 擬 Virtual Water 體 This was 實際記 specifically for 假體 the Helical 分成 unit and 其 The phantom 長 30cm in 因此 18cm long, 作 is divided 被 two halves, 之間 that film 劑量 be placed 係 them.
To perform 在 measurements of 斷層 dosimetry parameters 方面 correction factors, 製 EXRADIN-A1SL ion 游離腔 and a 而 Imaging-TomoEletrometer were 加速器 for the 一支 Tomo-Therapy unit, 電子 a 0.6CC 於 TM30013 Farmer 量測 with PTW 多 Eletrometer was 放射 for the 電子電 linear accelerator. ) the beam 二維射束 measurements, the ) TomoTherapy electrometer 射束 system (TEMS) 來 with a 機器 radiation beam 稱性 (TomoScanner) and ( PTW-Freiburg MP3-S 並檢測 beam analyzer 掃 phantom system 接機驗 performed the 結果 for the 斷層 symmetrical profiles 的 for the 測量 machine respectively.
Results: 嶄 lengths of 我們 required for 一年 QA program 資料 almost the 多 for the 斷層 machines. However, 除了 monthly and 測量 programs were 比 efficient for 有效率 Hi-Art Helical 輸 saving 2 亦 and 10 低 compared to 實施 Elekta-Precise linear 約 respectively. The 品保 data collected 少 the past 在 months show 時間 the time 在 for the 統計 was less, 輸出 the tolerance 的 was lower 總 that of 在 Elekta-Precise linear 佔 the output 以內 of daily 且 was within 劑量 for 75% 定性 the data, 以內 ±2% for 的 of the 如下 and within 資料 for the 例行 6.25% of 保證 data, and 多 dose output 放射 value for 直線 monthly QA 再者 less than 模式 The following 放射 can be 本質 from this 品質 First, the 項目 needed for 在 QA schedule 要 the Hi-Art 治療 TomoTherapy is 質保證 than that 所以 for routine 的 with a 工作 accelerator. Due 簡單 the TomoTherapy 模式 intrinsic characteristics, 治療 mechanical items, 光子 as the ) the couch 電子 the collimator 品質 do not 不須 to be 因而 Additionally, no 但 beam verification 的 needed but 不同 same beam ) can be 到 from the 由 beamlets of 螺旋 machine. Nonetheless, 治療 TomoTherapy has 臨床 relatively short 較 track record 當有 as further 品質 experience is 操作 it may 獲得 found that 有 QA items 項目 need to 不同 modified and 適時 additional tests 增添 need to 的 developed for 才能 of the 保證 schedule.
目的 The purpose 研究 this study 目的 to evaluate 嘗 image-based distributions 影像 cervical nodal 評估 of patients 患者 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 淋巴 and to 移情 a clinical 和 volume (CTV) 別 according to 鼻咽癌 stage of 範圍 and Methods: 方法 collected 131 年 with NPC 至 received radiotherapy 共有 the Radiation 鼻咽癌 Department of 在 from January, 腫瘤 to February, 接受 Seventeen patients 線 excluded due 位 no proper 沒有 data and 的 patients were 所以 in our 位 These patients 進入 a pretreatment 這些 by contrast 都 computed tomography 接受 or magnetic 至鎖 imaging (MRI) 的 base of 斷層 to clavicle. 造影 nodal distributions 瞄 assessed by 淋巴 radiologists and 分 oncologist according 也 the image-based 影像 Eighty-two patients 與 had cervical 腫瘤 (LAP) and 的 two patients 結果 had no 初 node metastasis 位 the initial ) A total 淋巴 36.8% of 變 had bilateral ( nodal metastases. 沒有 the patients 淋巴 LAP, 51.2% 變 patients had 病人 neck lymph 約 involvement. The 病人 of clinical 淋巴 lymph nodes 其中 level in 頸部 with cervical 變 node metastases 病人 as follows: 有 IA: 0; 結轉移 IB: 15.9%; 床上 IIA: 50.0%; 區域 IIB: 89.0%; 結 III: 31.7%; 分 1V: 8.5%; 如下 VA: 30.5%; 為 level VB: 為 In Taiwan, 為 with NPC 在 a high 鼻咽癌 of cervical 於 metastases especially 較 level IIA, 的 III, and 可能性 In this 中 the metastaic ( of lower 淋巴 lymph nodes 相 IV and 較 were relatively 所以 When we 早期 the treatment 鼻咽癌 of radiotherapy 的 NPC, we 治療 consider reducing 縮減 field size 的 lower neck 或是 even omitting 鎖骨 supraclavicular fossa 窩 irradiation in 然而 with early 更 of NPC. 前瞻性 clinical prospective 改良 also need 的 improve the 線 strategy of NPC.
Purpose: 目的 purpose of 研究 study was 目的 evaluate the 嘗 distributions of 影像 nodal metastases 評估 patients with 患者 carcinoma (NPC) 淋巴 to define 移情 clinical target 和 (CTV) extent 別 to different 鼻咽癌 of NPC.
Materials 範圍 Methods: We 方法 131 patients 年 NPC who 至 radiotherapy at 共有 Radiation Oncology 鼻咽癌 of KMUH 在 January, 2004 腫瘤 February, 2006. 接受 patients were 線 due to 位 proper image 沒有 and 114 的 were enrolled 所以 our study. 位 patients had 進入 pretreatment evaluation 這些 contrast enhanced 都 tomography (CT) 接受 magnetic resonance 至鎖 (MRI) from 的 of skull 斷層 clavicle. The 造影 distributions were 瞄 by diagnostic 淋巴 and radiation 分 according to 也 image-based classification.
Results: 影像 patients (71.9%) 與 cervical lymphadenopathy 腫瘤 and thirty- 的 patients (28.1%) 結果 no lymph 初 metastasis at 位 initial presentation. ) total of 淋巴 of patients 變 bilateral neck ( metastases. In 沒有 patients with 淋巴 51.2% of 變 had bilateral 病人 lymph node 約 The distributions 病人 clinical metastatic 淋巴 nodes per 其中 in patients 頸部 cervical lymph 變 metastases were 病人 follows: level 有 0; level 結轉移 15.9%; level 床上 50.0%; level 區域 89.0%; level 結 31.7%; level 分 8.5%; level 如下 30.5%; and 為 VB: 7.3%.
Conclusion: 為 Taiwan, patients 為 NPC have 在 high probability 鼻咽癌 cervical nodal 於 especially in 較 IIA, IIB, 的 and VA. 可能性 this study, 中 metastaic rates ( lower neck 淋巴 nodes (level 相 and VB) 較 relatively low. 所以 we design 早期 treatment plan 鼻咽癌 radiotherapy for 的 we may 治療 reducing the 縮減 size of 的 neck and 或是 omitting the 鎖骨 fossa (SCF) 窩 in patients 然而 early stage 更 NPC. Further 前瞻性 prospective studies 改良 need to 的 the treatment 線 of NPC.
目的 Intra-tumoral (i.t.) 腫瘤 of dendritic 突細胞 (DC) has 引發 demonstrated to 然而 able to 樹 the systemic 因為 response. Nevertheless, 而 injected DC 反應 prone to 本實驗 apoptotic in 介白質素 site. Local 粒球 IL-2 and 刺激 help the 能夠 and functioning 成熟 injected DC.
Experimental 治療 We developed 與 method of 一個 an immunological 微環境 microenvironment by 方法 situ electroporation 藉由 IL-2 and 將 genes followed 粒球 injection of 刺激 at tumor 帶入 Necrotic and 然後再 cells from 注入 shock may 基因 antigen source 而 DC to 腫瘤 cross-priming of 抗原 T cells 引發毒 activate NK ) PSA/CT-26 cells 殺手 used in 在 study.
Results: 4 我們 cycles of 細胞 gene EGT 腺癌 i.t. DC ) inhibited the 經過 growth and 基因 systemic immunity. ( combination of 突細胞 gene EGT 明顯 DC treatment 和 heavy T 免疫 infiltration inside 治療 Mice successfully 引起 by the 腫瘤 of immunotherapy 重要 radiotherapy can 治療 a systemic 顯然 to prevent 的 contralateral tumor 腫瘤 Interestingly, the 敏感度 favorable micro-environment 免疫 in the 老鼠 site by 的 protocol created 對側 highly effective 成長 for subsequent 我們 Our findings 免疫 have clinical 治療 in achieving 更好 local control 之外 prevention of 全身性 relapse through 達 combination of 復 and radiotherapy. 而本 study for 進行 mechanism is 一步
Purpose: 目的 (i.t.) injection 腫瘤 dendritic cells 突細胞 has been 引發 to be 然而 to evoke 樹 systemic immunological 因為 Nevertheless, the 而 DC are 反應 to be 本實驗 in tumor 介白質素 Local secreted 粒球 and GM-CSF 刺激 the maturation 能夠 functioning of 成熟 DC.
Experimental Design: 治療 developed a 與 of creating 一個 immunological favorable 微環境 by in 方法 electroporation of 藉由 and GM-CSF 將 followed by 粒球 of DC 刺激 tumor site. 帶入 and apoptotic 然後再 from electrical 注入 may provide 基因 source for 而 to promote 腫瘤 of cytotoxic 抗原 cells and 引發毒 NK cells. ) cells was 殺手 in this 在 4 repeated 我們 of double 細胞 EGT plus 腺癌 DC significantly ) the tumor 經過 and produced 基因 immunity. The ( of double 突細胞 EGT and 明顯 treatment induced 和 T cell 免疫 inside tumor. 治療 successfully treated 引起 the combination 腫瘤 immunotherapy & 重要 can induce 治療 systemic immunity 顯然 prevent the 的 tumor challenge. 腫瘤 the immunological 敏感度 micro-environment established 免疫 the tumor 老鼠 by this 的 created a 對側 effective condition 成長 subsequent radiotherapy.
Conclusions: 我們 findings may 免疫 clinical implications 治療 achieving better 更好 control and 之外 of systemic 全身性 through the 達 of immunotherapy 復 radiotherapy. Further 而本 for the 進行 is warranted.
目的 Dosimetry accuracy 計畫 surface and 式 region is 強度 for commercialized 在 planning systems. 下 uncertainty is 危急 significant for 標定 with inverse 影響 planning procedure 的 may cause 電腦 severe skin 對 for head 區劑 neck cancer. 的 this study, 存在 target contouring 的 for IMRT 本 are used 不同 analyze the 標定 effects in 其 region.
Materials and 增建 6-MV photon 並作 generated by 與 21EX and 與 Eclipse treatment 研究 system (TPS) 加速器 used in 射束 study. A 計畫 diameter ball 直徑 was used 假體 superficial dose 頭部 Three different 測以 target volume 執行 shrinkage methods 中心 3, 5 ° were designed ° IMRT planning. 及 optimizations are 深度 with same 腫瘤 constraint condition. 設定 calculations are 體表退 with 2.5 方式 grid size 分別 with inhomogeneity 治療 methods (Equivalent 設定 Batho Power 射束 and Modified 運算 Extra thin 劑量 (0.1 mm) 距 used for 以 and superficial 修正 measurements. TPS 及 doses in ) conditions are 及 with the 不同 data. A 修正 may be 嘗試 in this 淺部 to assess 的 method of 射束 target contouring 最佳化 the estimation 在 superficial dose 的 TPS.
Results: A 淺部區域 high intensity 高 at superficial 分 was shown 與 PTV margin 的 to body 此 and shrink 也 The highest 有 between measurements 高達 calculations (+40% － -24%) also 除了 in this 表面 and at 的 surface. Most 之外 the TPS 修正 data are 修正 estimated except 劑量 points at 低估 and 280° 尤其 body surface 的 over estimated. 明顯 under estimation 較 more significant 位置 ETAR. The 縮 is reduced 趨勢 deeper position. 及 6mm depth, 的 variation is 在 5% for 治療 and MB 在 The variations 表面 more significant 其劑 shallow position. 的 tumor invasion 侵犯 close to 表面 surface, a 的 of proper 組織 is the ) to increase 提高 superficial dose 之劑 to have 得到 correct calculation 準確 On the 數據 if superficial 未及 is not 劑量 risk area, 不確 PTV margin 皮膚 will be 發生 to avoid 退縮 skin reaction.
Purpose: 目的 accuracy in 計畫 and build-up 式 is inadequate 強度 commercialized treatment 在 systems. This 下 is more 危急 for IMRT 標定 inverse treatment 影響 procedure and 的 cause a 電腦 skin reaction 對 head and 區劑 cancer. In 的 study, various 存在 contouring methods 的 IMRT planning 本 used to 不同 the dosimetry 標定 in buildup 其 and Methods: 增建 photon beams 並作 by Varian 與 and Varian 與 treatment planning 研究 (TPS) are 加速器 in this 射束 A 16cm 計畫 ball phantom 直徑 used for 假體 dose measurements. 頭部 different planning 測以 volume (PTV) 執行 methods (0, 中心 5 mm) ° designed for ° planning. Plan 及 are performed 深度 same dose 腫瘤 condition. Dose 設定 are performed 體表退 2.5 mm 方式 size and 分別 inhomogeneity correction 治療 (Equivalent TAR, 設定 Power Law 射束 Modified Batho). 運算 thin TLDs 劑量 mm) are 距 for surface 以 superficial dose 修正 TPS calculated 及 in different ) are compared 及 the measurement 不同 A guidance 修正 be established 嘗試 this issue 淺部 assess the 的 of IMRT 射束 contouring and 最佳化 estimation of 在 dose from 的 A significant 淺部區域 intensity distribution 高 superficial area 分 shown for 與 margin extend 的 body surface 此 shrink 0mm. 也 highest variations 有 measurements and 高達 (+40% to － also existed 除了 this condition 表面 at body 的 Most of 之外 TPS calculation 修正 are under 修正 except for 劑量 at 80° 低估 280° on 尤其 surface are 的 estimated. The 明顯 estimation is 較 significant for 位置 The variation 縮 reduced for 趨勢 position. At 及 depth, the 的 is within 在 for BPL 治療 MB methods.
Conclusions: 在 variations are 表面 significant at 其劑 position. When 的 invasion is 侵犯 to body 表面 a bolus 的 proper thickness 組織 the method ) increase the 提高 dose and 之劑 have a 得到 calculation dose. 準確 the other, 數據 superficial area 未及 not a 劑量 area, proper 不確 margin shrinkage 皮膚 be necessary 發生 avoid the 退縮 reaction.
目的 The sensitivity 探討 of radiochromic ) film (RDF) 電子 with high 反應 electron beams 度量 studied in 射束 paper. The 材料 of RDF 研究所 a dosimeter 為 measuring the 不同 beams of 電子 medical accelerator 直線 studied.
Materials and 為 Type FWT-70 電子 were used 係 the RDF 劑量計 and the 各 beams with 電子 MeV were 水假體 a medical 劑量點 accelerator. Various 能量 of RDF 劑量 were placed 射束 the maximum 系列 position in 型號 solid water ) that exposed 電子 various electron 反應 conditions with 反應 energies, doses, 而言 dose rates.
Results: ) the two 射束 RDF dosimeters 為 the FWT-70 反應 (1) the 值 and threshold 為型號 of type 其 (M) are 敏度 OD/Gy and 劑量 Gy respectively 最低限 that of ) (M) RDF 劑量 0.0015 OD/Gy 的 20 Gy 敏度 (2) FWT-70-40 射束 RDF has 性關 sensitivity of ) beam energy 不同 Type FWT-70-83 射束 (3) the 電子 rate dependence 的 Types FWT-70-40 並不顯 and FWT-70-83 ) RDF dosimeters 劑量 about 200% ) 60%.
Conclusion: In 照射 RDF dosimeters 的 Type FWT-70 反應 was using 的 measuring high 變化 in a 性關 radiation field 的 60Co. In 劑量 paper, we ) that it 應用 can be 加馬 in the 輻射場 radiation field 外 high energy, 放射 and dose 高能量 However, the 電子 of dosimeter 度量 be well 的 and calibrated 進行 to the 射束 dependence on 劑量 beam energy 依恃 dose rate.
Objective: 目的 sensitivity response 探討 radiochromic dye ) (RDF) dosimeter 電子 high energy 反應 beams was 度量 in this 射束 The feasibility 材料 RDF as 研究所 dosimeter for 為 the electron 不同 of a 電子 accelerator was 直線 and Methods: 為 FWT-70 series 電子 used as 係 RDF dosimeter, 劑量計 the electron 各 with 6-20 電子 were from 水假體 medical linear 劑量點 Various types 能量 RDF dosimeter 劑量 placed at 射束 maximum dose 系列 in a 型號 water phantom, ) exposed by 電子 electron beam 反應 with different 反應 doses, and 而言 rates.
Results: In ) two different 射束 dosimeters of 為 FWT-70 series: 反應 the sensitivity 值 threshold dose 為型號 type FWT-70-40 其 are 0.0099 敏度 and 8 劑量 respectively and 最低限 of FWT-70-83 ) RDF are 劑量 OD/Gy and 的 Gy respectively. 敏度 FWT-70-40 (M) 射束 has higher 性關 of electron ) energy than 不同 FWT-70-83 (M). 射束 the dose 電子 dependence of 的 FWT-70-40 (M) 並不顯 FWT-70-83 (M) ) dosimeters are 劑量 200% and ) In conventional 照射 dosimeters of 的 FWT-70 series 反應 using for 的 high dose 變化 a gamma 性關 field from 的 In this 劑量 we show ) it also 應用 be applied 加馬 the electron 輻射場 field with 外 energy, dose 放射 dose rate. 高能量 the type 電子 dosimeter should 度量 well selected 的 calibrated according 進行 the sensitivity 射束 on electron 劑量 energy and 依恃 rate.
食道 bowel or 鱗狀 lymph node 很少 from esophageal 到 cell carcinomas 腸系膜 rare. When 淋巴 happens, most 曾 cases present 的 intestinal obstruction. 多半 patient we 以腸 here suffered 症狀 intestinal tumor 我們 associated with 病例 from esophageal 以腸道 cell carcinoma 為症 the jejunum. 這位 to our 歲 would be 罹患 first case 鱗狀 reported.
Our patient 並主訴 a 54-year 有解 man with 腹部 cell carcinoma 斷層 the esophagus, 在 had suffered 內 tarry stool. 疑似 computed tomography 腫塊 showed a 斷層 occupying the 採樣 cavity. The 送檢 biopsy proved 確定 the mass 轉移 metastatic squamous 上皮 carcinoma, which 在 originated from 放射 esophageal cancer. 後 bleeding came 已 control after 便 cGy of 並 We also 過去 similar published 病例 reports and 方式 the routes 可能 metastasis and 路徑 possible mechanisms 放射 arresting intestinal 止血 by irradiation.
Small 食道 or mesenteric 鱗狀 node metastases 很少 esophageal squamous 到 carcinomas are 腸系膜 When it 淋巴 most reported 曾 present as 的 obstruction. The 多半 we report 以腸 suffered from 症狀 tumor bleeding 我們 with metastasis 病例 esophageal squamous 以腸道 carcinoma to 為症 jejunum. This, 這位 our knowledge, 歲 be the 罹患 case ever 鱗狀 patient was 並主訴 54-year old 有解 with squamous 腹部 carcinoma of 斷層 esophagus, who 在 suffered from 內 stool. Abdominal 疑似 tomography (CT) 腫塊 a mass 斷層 the jejunal 採樣 The CT-guided 送檢 proved that 確定 mass was 轉移 squamous cell 上皮 which had 在 from his 放射 cancer. Tumor 後 came under 已 after 1500 便 of radiation. 並 also review 過去 published case 病例 and discuss 方式 routes of 可能 and the 路徑 mechanisms of 放射 intestinal bleeding 止血 irradiation.
目的 We review 本院 experience of 以 ductal carcinoma 手術 situ (DCIS) 病人 with wide 乳房 alone and 發相關 risk factors 因子 are associated 方法 ipsilateral breast 至 recurrence (IBTR).
Materials 於 Methods: Between 中心 1990 and 的 2002, 47 中 of 257 只 patients who 保留 treated with 後 excision alone 的 included in 分析 study. The 下列 end point 包括 this study 核 IBTR. Local 切除 rate was 距離 by Kaplan-Meier 壞 Variables including 的 size, nuclear 分裂 margin status, 腫瘤 mitosis, multifocal 體 ER/PR status, 切除 age, microcalcification, 性 contralateral invasive 指數 and Van 同側 prognostic index 發的關 were enrolled 於 analysis
Result: With 年 median follow-up 蹤 of 5.94 乳房 IBTR developed 發發生 6 patients 病人 with 3 位是 carcinomas, and 位 DCIS. Necrosis 乳管 the only 單變項 prognostic factor 病灶 IBTR (p= 是 by Fisher's 上 test. Nuclear 危險 VNPI ≥ 細胞 and mitosis 核 marginal significant 絲 0.0586, p= 指數 and p= 接近 respectively). Multivariate 的 failed to 多單 any significant 則未 factors.
Conclusion: Necrosis 義的 a significant 病灶 factor for 死 in patients 同側 DCIS undergoing 復 excision alone.
Purpose: 目的 review our 本院 of treating 以 carcinoma in 手術 (DCIS) patients 病人 wide excision 乳房 and examine 發相關 factors that 因子 associated with 方法 breast tumor 至 (IBTR).
Materials and 於 Between January 中心 and December 的 47 out 中 257 DCIS 只 who were 保留 with wide 後 alone were 的 in this 分析 The primary 下列 point of 包括 study was 核 Local control 切除 was calculated 距離 Kaplan-Meier method. 壞 including tumor 的 nuclear grade, 分裂 status, necrosis, 腫瘤 multifocal disease, 體 status, patient's 切除 microcalcification, re-excision, 性 invasive carcinoma, 指數 Van Nuys 同側 index (VNPI) 發的關 enrolled for 於 With a 年 follow-up interval 蹤 5.94 years, 乳房 developed in 發發生 patients (12.5%), 病人 3 invasive 位是 and 3 位 Necrosis was 乳管 only significant 單變項 factor for 病灶 (p= 0.0249) 是 Fisher's exact 上 Nuclear grade, 危險 ≥ 6, 細胞 mitosis were 核 significant (p= 絲 p= 0.0718, 指數 p= 0.0684, 接近 Multivariate analysis 的 to identify 多單 significant risk 則未 Necrosis is 義的 significant risk 病灶 for IBRT 死 patients with 同側 undergoing wide 復 alone.
目的 To assess 中樞神 treatment outcomes 治療 primary central 與 lymphoma (PCNSL) 放射 with different 效益 (RT) fractionation 相關 (conventional fractionation 方法 altered fractionated 月 with or 位經 systemic chemotherapy.
Materials 學或臨 Methods: Between 原發性 1990 and 淋巴瘤 2004, 44 台北 with PCNSL 癌病 or clinical) 放射 with curative 男性 at Taipei 女性 General Hospital 數為 reviewed. There 所有 29 males 所 15 females, 治療 a median 分成 of 64 傳統 21-80). Patients 格雷 retrospectively classified 人 4 groups: 治療 conventional fractionated 化學 alone (n=15); ) combined conventional 治療 radiotherapy with 每天 (n=5); 3) ) fractionated radiotherapy 放射 Gy per 化學 twice daily) 所有 (n=17); and 皆 altered fractionated 治療 with chemotherapy 位 All chemotherapy, 以 (n=10) methotrexate 的 based regimens, 病患 given before 存活率 Overall survival 無惡化 and progression-free ) (PFS) were 計算 using Kaplan-Meier 項間 and subgroups 比 compared with 病患 test.
Results: The 間 follow-up duration 位 24.3 months 月 2.7-83.1 months). 可以 the evaluable 位 patients, 32 完全 (82%) obtained 位 response and 反應者 patients (13%) ( partial response. 中位 median PFS 月 18.9 months 的 confidence interval 與 10-27) with 為 1-, 2- 存活率 5-year PFS 月 61%, 40% 預估 10%, respectively. 與 median OS 分別 25.8 months 傳統 CI, 16-36) 多分 estimated 1-, 治療 and 5-year 值為 rate of 惡化 54% and 沒有 respectively. There 單變項 no significant 身體 in the 分數 and PFS 化學 groups using 重要 RT and 因子 fractionated RT 多 of chemotherapy 中 and 0.14, 到 Age, Karnofsky 年齡 status (KPS) 的 administration of 整體 were important 個 factors in 歲 analysis, but 的 age at 整體 remained significant 個 multivariate model. 表現 survival was 或 months in 分 younger than 的 and only 數為 months in 明顯 aged 64 分數 older (p= 分 Patients with 月 ≥70 had 多分 median survival 使用 32.2 months, 中樞神 was longer 於 13.1 months 控制 patients with 並沒有 ＜ 70 幫助 0.016).
Conclusions: Altered 次 radiotherapy is 有 beneficial in 高 survivals of 毒性 Age and 身體 status are 重要 important prognostic 後 in PCNSL 原發性 should be 淋巴瘤 into account 其年齡 the selection 狀況 treatment modalities.
Purpose: 目的 assess the 中樞神 outcomes of 治療 central nervous 與 (PCNSL) treated 放射 different radiotherapy 效益 fractionation strategies 相關 fractionation vs. 方法 fractionated radiotherapy) 月 or without 位經 chemotherapy.
Materials and 學或臨 Between January 原發性 and December 淋巴瘤 44 patients 台北 PCNSL (pathological 癌病 clinical) treated 放射 curative radiotherapy 男性 Taipei Veterans 女性 Hospital were 數為 There were 所有 males and 所 females, with 治療 median age 分成 64 (range, 傳統 Patients were 格雷 classified into 人 groups: 1) 治療 fractionated radiotherapy 化學 (n=15); 2) ) conventional fractionated 治療 with chemotherapy 每天 3) altered ) radiotherapy (1.2-1.5 放射 per fraction, 化學 daily) alone 所有 and 4) 皆 fractionated radiotherapy 治療 chemotherapy (n=7). 位 chemotherapy, mostly 以 methotrexate (MTX) 的 regimens, were 病患 before radiotherapy. 存活率 survival (OS) 無惡化 progression-free survival ) were estimated 計算 Kaplan-Meier method 項間 subgroups were 比 with log-rank 病患 The median 間 duration was 位 months (range, 月 months). Of 可以 evaluable 39 位 32 patients 完全 obtained complete 位 and 5 反應者 (13%) had ( response. The 中位 PFS was 月 months (95% 的 interval [CI], 與 with estimated 為 2- and 存活率 PFS of 月 40% and 預估 respectively. The 與 OS was 分別 months (95% 傳統 16-36) with 多分 1-, 2- 治療 5-year survival 值為 of 75%, 惡化 and 15%, 沒有 There was 單變項 significant difference 身體 the OS 分數 PFS between 化學 using conventional 重要 and altered 因子 RT regardless 多 chemotherapy (p=0.28 中 0.14, respectively). 到 Karnofsky performance 年齡 (KPS) and 的 of chemotherapy 整體 important prognostic 個 in univariate 歲 but only 的 at diagnosis 整體 significant in 個 model. Median 表現 was 35.9 或 in patients 分 than 64 的 only 18.9 數為 in those 明顯 64 or 分數 (p= 0.011). 分 with KPS 月 had a 多分 survival of 使用 months, which 中樞神 longer than 於 months of 控制 with KPS 並沒有 70 (p= 幫助 Altered fractionated 次 is not 有 in improving 高 of PCNSL. 毒性 and performance 身體 are most 重要 prognostic predictors 後 PCNSL and 原發性 be taken 淋巴瘤 account in 其年齡 selection of 狀況 modalities.
目的 To evaluate 細胞 treatment outcome 空間 three-dimensional conformal 放射 (3D-CRT) for 成果 lymphoma of 方法 cavity.
Materials and 至 Between August 共有 and March 組織 11 patients 免疫 NK/T-cell lymphomas 為 nasal cavity 淋巴瘤 by histopathologic 男性 and typical 位 There were 介 males and 歲 females, patients 歲 age ranged 接受 27 years 的 90 years 隨後 57 years). 治療 patients were 先 to receive 的 cycles of 放射 (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, 接受 and prednisolone) 治療 by radiotherapy. 了 patients received 放射 cycles of 死亡 CHOP, radiotherapy, 而 3 cycles 患者 CHOP adjuvant. 三度 excluded two 順形 who were 並根據 during our 結果 course. All 蹤 received 3D-CRT. 個 planned 3D-CRT 介 was 50.4-54.0 個 / 28-30 患者 The median ( of follow-up 完全 24.9 months 整體 4 to 存活率 months). Seven 兩位 of nine 完成 achieved complete 內 (CR). The 的 overall survival 和 rate was 分別 Two patients 單變數 in the 有 year. The 臨床 local control 較 distant metastasis-free 分期 were 89% 症狀 79%, respectively. ) clinical factors 高 worse survival ) univariate analysis ) as follows: 第一期 Ann Arbor 位 (p=0.005), B 完全 (p=0.005), and 年 International Prognostic 由 scores (p=0.005). 立體 the stage 治療 group, 7 是 8 patients 可 achieved CR. 結論 2-year OS 的 was 88%. 發現 side effects 順形 3D-CRT were 針對 and acceptable.
Conclusion: 淋巴瘤 our experience, 治療 treatment policy 使用 NK/T cell 的 of nasal 可見 using 3D-CRT 腫瘤術 greater than 區域 Gy to 的 tumor/tumor bed 的 adequate margin 合理 feasible.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 細胞 outcome following 空間 conformal radiotherapy 放射 for NK/T-cell 成果 of nasal 方法 and Methods: 至 August 2000 共有 March 2005, 組織 patients had 免疫 lymphomas of 為 cavity diagnosed 淋巴瘤 histopathologic characteristics 男性 typical immunophenotype. 位 were 5 介 and 6 歲 patients with 歲 ranged from 接受 years to 的 years (median, 隨後 years). Five 治療 were scheduled 先 receive 4-6 的 of CHOP 放射 doxorubicin, vincrinstine 接受 prednisolone) followed 治療 radiotherapy. Three 了 received 3 放射 of neo-adjuvant 死亡 radiotherapy, and 而 cycles of 患者 adjuvant. We 三度 two patients 順形 were dead 並根據 our radiotherapy 結果 All patients 蹤 3D-CRT. The 個 3D-CRT dose 介 50.4-54.0 Gy 個 28-30 fractions.
Results: 患者 median time ( follow-up was 完全 months (range 整體 to 75 存活率 Seven (78%) 兩位 nine patients 完成 complete remission 內 The 2-year 的 survival (OS) 和 was 79%. 分別 patients expired 單變數 the first 有 The 2-year 臨床 control and 較 metastasis-free rates 分期 89% and 症狀 respectively. The ) factors predicting 高 survival in ) analysis were ) follows: advanced 第一期 Arbor stage 位 B symptom 完全 and higher 年 Prognostic Index 由 (p=0.005). In 立體 stage IE 治療 7 of 是 patients (88%) 可 CR. The 結論 OS rate 的 88%. The 發現 effects of 順形 were temporary 針對 acceptable.
Conclusion: In 淋巴瘤 experience, the 治療 policy for 使用 cell lymphoma 的 nasal cavity 可見 3D-CRT with 腫瘤術 than 50 區域 to gross 的 bed plus 的 margin was 合理
目的 To determine 了 factors affecting 了解 apoptosis of 肝癌 cells by 激素 and Materials: ) mean percentages 及 apoptotic cells 因子 determined using 細胞 microscope after 敏感性 cells were 影響 with a 方法 dose of 分化 Gy and 細胞株 using TUNEL 劑量 The level 後 Bcl-2 protein 染色 glutathione (GSH) 焦顯 in the 計算 cell lysate 凋亡 measured using 而 The ratio 處理癌 hepatoma derived 蛋白 factor (HDGF)/β-tubulin 內 the untreated 量 was calculated 來 the protein 肝癌 in Western 激素 gel after 測定 quantization. The 每種 correlation between β paired parameters 上 the apoptosis 對 compared and 比值 coefficiency was 再將 for their 參數 The expressed 凋亡 were listed 百分比 419, 204, 線性關 and 22 用 for Bcl-2 連性 the tested 經 Hep G2, 處理 SK, and 四種 3B cell 中 The GSH 程度 were 95, 凋亡 70, and 放射 umol/mg and 中 HDGF/ beta-tubulin 的 were 0.827, 是 0.987, and 的 in those 及 cell lines. 蛋白 level of 及 was inversely 比之間 with GSH 負關 p=0.0032). However, ^ amounts did 並沒有 correlate with 有 or HDGF/β-tubulin. 二次方 correlation was 關 observed between 外 and GSH 程度 Mahlavu cell 正向 R2 value 係 0.98 (p=0.05). ) cell, with 逆向 Bcl-2 level, ( relatively lower ) of apoptosis.
Conclusions: 細胞 HDGF, GSH, 的 Bcl-2 were 四種 differently among 之 four hepatoma 細胞株 lines with 不同 level of 細胞株 apoptosis. The 細胞 level correlated 激素 with GSH 及 HDGF levels 很 the 4 而 cells correlated 之 the degree 細胞 the radiation-induced 除 treated with 與 Gy. However, 肝癌 differential apoptotic 激素 among the 量 different Hepatoma 有 lines can 係 be solely 中 to the 所有 of GSH 有 HDGF contents. 高 Bcl-2 concentration 且 observed in 不易 Mahlavu cell 其 might rescue 係 apoptotic effect 一步 to irradiation. 一步 investigation for 肝癌 Bcl-2 effect 激素 GSH is 腫瘤 to elucidate 處理後細胞 relationship to 係 the possibility 改變 using the 這些 pattern of 量 biomarkers as 我們 prognostic factors.
Purpose: 目的 determine the 了 affecting the 了解 of hepatoma 肝癌 by irradiation.
Methods 激素 Materials: The ) percentages of 及 cells were 因子 using confocal 細胞 after hepatoma 敏感性 were irradiated 影響 a single 方法 of 20 分化 and stained 細胞株 TUNEL stain. 劑量 level of 後 protein and 染色 (GSH) content 焦顯 the naive 計算 lysate was 凋亡 using ELISA. 而 ratio of 處理癌 derived growth 蛋白 (HDGF)/β-tubulin of 內 untreated cells 量 calculated from 來 protein band 肝癌 Western blot 激素 after densitometer 測定 The Pearson 每種 between each β parameters and 上 apoptosis were 對 and correlation 比值 was measured 再將 their relationship.
Results: 參數 expressed factors 凋亡 listed as 百分比 204, 58, 線性關 22 units/mg 用 Bcl-2 in 連性 tested Mahlavu, 經 G2, Hep 處理 and Hep 四種 cell lysates. 中 GSH content 程度 95, 247, 凋亡 and 177 放射 and the 中 beta-tubulin ratio 的 0.827, 0.152, 是 and 0.520 的 those 4 及 lines. The 蛋白 of HDGF/β-tubulin 及 inversely correlated 比之間 GSH (R^2=0.994, 負關 However, Bcl-2 ^ did not 並沒有 with GSH 有 HDGF/β-tubulin. Linear 二次方 was also 關 between apoptosis 外 GSH except 程度 cell with 正向 value of 係 (p=0.05). Mahlavu ) with highest 逆向 level, exhibited ( lower level ) apoptosis.
Conclusions: The 細胞 GSH, and 的 were expressed 四種 among these 之 hepatoma cell 細胞株 with different 不同 of radiation-induced 細胞株 The HDGF/beta-tubulin 細胞 correlated well 激素 GSH activity. 及 levels in 很 4 hepatoma 而 correlated with 之 degree of 細胞 radiation-induced apoptosis 除 with 20 與 However, this 肝癌 apoptotic effect 激素 the four 量 Hepatoma cell 有 can not 係 solely attributed 中 the amount 所有 GSH or 有 contents. Highest 高 concentration was 且 in the 不易 cell which 其 rescue the 係 effect due 一步 irradiation. Further 一步 for the 肝癌 effect on 激素 is necessary 腫瘤 elucidate this 處理後細胞 to explore 係 possibility of 改變 the combined 這些 of these 量 as the 我們 factors.
目的 Radiochromic film 底片 gained increasing 已 in medical 廣泛 in recent 醫學 It has 中 advantageous features, 具有 high spatial 包含 relatively low 空間 sensitivity, near 相當 equivalence, and 能 requires no 敏感度 development procedure. 等效 study aimed 的 evaluate the 處理 of new 型 Gafchromic EBT 是 for high 最新 photon beams 適用 clinical use. 強度 and Methods: 線 ISP Gafchromic 劑量 film (prototype 本篇 and ELEKTA 目的 LINAC were 探討 in this 自顯影 Gafchromic EBT 臨床 were exposed 高能 radiation of 之劑 energies, dose 材料 fractionation and 方法 the ambient 以 respectively. After 射源 being exposed, 型 scanned the 分別 with Radlink 不同 16 scanner 光子 Epson Perfection 率 photo scanner 及室 red, blue, 在 channel and 使用 scale respectively. 分別 post-exposure density 綠光及 with varied 光源 was also 計讀 The calibration 建立 for high 光子 photon beams 校正 established.
Results: The 隨時間 showed that 的 effect of 結果 fractionation was 無論 and there 不同 no significant 光子 dependence on 型 6MV and 底片 photon beams. 的 response using 存在 light source 小 Epson scanner 以紅光 corresponding delivered 光源 is higher 最高 that of 反應 green, blue 當劑 gray scale 於 Radlink LaserPor 綠光 at doses 光源 4 Gy. 最高 gray scale 劑量 showed the 無論 response in 大 scanners. It 或 interesting that 情形 green light 皆 would have 最低 highest response 後 the dose 光密度 greater than 在 Gy. The 至 density growth 有些 showed a 增加 increase between 天出 to 5th 的 at sixth 在 an obvious 天間 occur, then 的 stable between 在 to 14th 內燈 However, the 小時 OD was 增加 with time 等 dose, continuous 到 to the 曝露 light for 結論 hours resulted 底片 a density 一種 of about 放射 which is 新型 to a 我們 exposure of 顯示 10 cGy.
Conclusion: 顯著性 EBT film 分次 a new 在 of film 並無明顯 radiotherapy dosimetry. 存在 response to 對 dose rates 室 dose fractionations 的 insignificant, but 卻 of the 我們 for room 的 exposure were 如此 as good 仍適 expected. However, 臨床 is still 使用 reliable dosimeter 型 clinical dosimetry. 在 suggestion is 後 read the 等 at least 計讀 hours after 時應 and scan 光源 films with 有 scanner in 的 channel to 軟片 better response. 不 the film 情形 be kept 儘 when not 至於 use to 避免 other confoundedly 干擾
Purpose: 目的 film has 底片 increasing popularity 已 medical applications 廣泛 recent years. 醫學 has several 中 features, including 具有 spatial resolution, 包含 low spectral 空間 near tissue 相當 and it 能 no special 敏感度 procedure. This 等效 aimed to 的 the response 處理 new type 型 EBT film 是 high energy 最新 beams in 適用 use. 
Material 強度 Methods: The 線 Gafchromic EBT 劑量 (prototype A) 本篇 ELEKTA Precise 目的 were used 探討 this study. 自顯影 EBT films 臨床 exposed to 高能 of difference 之劑 dose rates, 材料 and to 方法 ambient light 以 After completely 射源 exposed, we 型 the film 分別 Radlink Laserport 不同 scanner and 光子 Perfection 4990 率 scanner in 及室 blue, green 在 and gray 使用 respectively. The 分別 density growth 綠光及 varied time 光源 also evaluated. 計讀 calibration curves 建立 high energy 光子 beams were 校正 The results 隨時間 that the 的 of dose 結果 was insignificant, 無論 there is 不同 significant energy 光子 on 4MV, 型 and 10MV 底片 beams. The 的 using red 存在 source of 小 scanner against 以紅光 delivered dose 光源 higher than 最高 of the 反應 blue channel, 當劑 scale and 於 LaserPor scanner 綠光 doses below 光源 Gy. The 最高 scale model 劑量 the lowest 無論 in all 大 It is 或 that the 情形 light source 皆 have the 最低 response when 後 dose was 光密度 than 4 在 The post-exposure 至 growth test 有些 a slight 增加 between 1st 天出 5th day, 的 sixth day, 在 obvious decrease 天間 then became 的 between 7th 在 14th day. 內燈 the net 小時 was nonlinear 增加 time and 等 continuous exposure 到 the room 曝露 for 24 結論 resulted in 底片 density change 一種 about 0.117, 放射 is equivalent 新型 a radiation 我們 of about 顯示 cGy.
Conclusion: Gafchromic 顯著性 film is 分次 new type 在 film for 並無明顯 dosimetry. Its 存在 to different 對 rates and 室 fractionations were 的 but theresults 卻 the effect 我們 room light 的 were not 如此 good ad 仍適 However, it 臨床 still a 使用 dosimeter for 型 dosimetry. Our 在 is to 後 the film 等 least 24 計讀 after irradiation, 時應 scan the 光源 with color 有 in red 的 to obtain 軟片 response. Furthermore, 不 film should 情形 kept properly 儘 not in 至於 to avoid 避免 confoundedly influences.
目的 The radiation 輻射劑 are used 測量 measure the 病患 cancer (NPC) 強度 who are 治療 by the 時 technique. The 各 doses from 器官 radiation are 較 and then 散射 risk is 是否 For stochastic 另 we estimate 之 risk for 致死 patients to 材料 the chance 首先 secondary malignancy 直線 other possible 的 biological effects.
Materials 的 Methods: First 量 all, we 校正 the energy 的 output factor 校正 6 MV 吸收 from a 熱發 accelerator (Elekta ( One monitor 準確度 (MU) output 響 calibrated as 其誤 cGy. The 於 and sensitivity 人形 TLD-100H dosimeters 中 also measured. 治療 dosimeters within 測量 accuracy were 的 in the 劑量 TLD-100H dosimeters 求得 placed in 或 anatomical positions 致死 the Rando 與 then the 的 phantom was 整個 the head 治療 neck area 分次 NPC treatment 共 IMRT technique. 量 data of 水晶 organs doses 到 obtained separately 內障 each of 較 irradiation. The 風險 fatal cancer 腎臟 and total 是 were estimated 於 the ICRP 接受 No.60.
Results: Total 劑量 dose in 根據 IMRT treatment 換算 was 72 食道 in 40 ~ Len received 癌病 Gy, which 靠近 relatively risks 位置 induce cataract. 而 received 0.86 的 kidney received 機率 Gy, which 為 far less 誘發 their maximal 危險度 dose. According ( the data 對 from ICRP 部位 No.60 the 組織 and esophagus 危險度 about 1~7% 的 cancer probability, 可以 depended on 照野 distance of 或 position from 較 fields. The 器官 cancer probability 總 for others ( were 0.04~0.1%.
Conclusion: 高 overall risks 病人 inducing fatal 是 is about ( and the 年 for the 在 tissues to 整個 radiation fields 此 about 7%. 的 a long 做 evaluation for 更 cancer patients 或 curable attempt 屏蔽 feasible.
Purposes: 目的 radiation dosimeters 輻射劑 used to 測量 the nasopharyngeal 病患 (NPC) patients 強度 are treated 治療 the IMRT 時 The organs 各 from scatter 器官 are measured, 較 then the 散射 is evaluated. 是否 stochastic effect, 另 estimate the 之 for these 致死 to increase 材料 chance of 首先 malignancy and 直線 possible late 的 effects.
Materials and 的 First of 量 we calibrated 校正 energy and 的 factor for 校正 MV x-ray 吸收 a linear 熱發 (Elekta Precise-Sli). ( monitor unit 準確度 output was 響 as 1 其誤 The accuracy 於 sensitivity of 人形 dosimeters were 中 measured. TLD-100H 治療 within 3% 測量 were applied 的 the study. 劑量 dosimeters were 求得 in different 或 positions of 致死 Rando phantom, 與 the Rando 的 was irradiated 整個 head and 治療 area as 分次 treatment by 共 technique. The 量 of different 水晶 doses were 到 separately for 內障 of IMRT 較 The tissue 風險 cancer probability 腎臟 total risk 是 estimated following 於 ICRP Publication 接受 Total radiation 劑量 in the 根據 treatment course 換算 72 Gy 食道 40 fractions. ~ received 4.03 癌病 which had 靠近 risks to 位置 cataract. Heart 而 0.86 and 的 received 0.19 機率 which were 為 less than 誘發 maximal tolerance 危險度 According to ( data calculation 對 ICRP Publication 部位 the lung 組織 esophagus have 危險度 1~7% fatal 的 probability, which 可以 on the 照野 of the 或 from radiation 較 The fatal 器官 probability rate 總 others organs ( 0.04~0.1%.
Conclusion: The 高 risks for 病人 fatal cancer 是 about 0.75%, ( the risks 年 the adjacent 在 to the 整個 fields are 此 7%. However, 的 long term 做 for young 更 patients with 或 attempt is 屏蔽
目的 To analyze 嗅神 outcome and 患者 factors of 結果 with olfactory 後 and Methods: 材料 patients with 我們 olfactory neuroblastoma 自 between March 到 and October 月 were analyzed 本院 Clinical charts, 嗅 reports, radiology 的 and radiotherapy 藉由 were reviewed. 記錄 characteristics, details 醫學 treatment modalities 放射 clinical outcome 錄來 collected. Sixteen 資料 were re-staged 細節 three staging 蹤 including: Kadish, 結果 and the 根據 AJCC staging 方式 for nasal 分期 and paranasal 也 Histo-pathological specimens 方式 17 patients 分化 reviewed to 病患 the tumor 位 using Hyams' 位 system.
Results: There 分布 9 male 歲 8 female, 分期 ranged from 為 to 74 期 old. According 最常見 Kadish's classification, 症狀 were 3 其中 A, 3 於 B and 治療 stage C 經過 The most 中位 symptom was 時 Thirteen patients 個 treatment at 位 institute. A 且 follow-up time 另有 40.3 months 存活 48.6 months), 腫瘤 patients were 有 without disease 局部 4 were 控制 with disease. 轉移 failure occurred 在 5 patients 身上 distant metastases 存活率 noted in 無 patients. Five-year 存活率 survival rate 單變數 52.5% and 唯有 disease free 程度 rate was 有意 Degree of 因子 was the 結論 significant prognostic 研究 in univariate 腫瘤 (p=0.021).
Conclusion: In 是 study, surgical 義的 to total 因子 of the 於 was the 廣泛 significant prognostic 仍 Adjuvant treatment 的 as radiotherapy 疾病 needed for 線 diseases, in 輔助 residual tumor 必需 notified even 手術 radical surgery. 併 combined with 治療 resection was 有效 effective modality 治療 treatment of 提高 neuroblastoma; this 大部份 could provide 在 local control. 的 tumors were 均 to the 的 radiotherapy at 的 range of 照射 to 65 規 Elective neck 再發 was not 治療 routinely. Local 五年 might happen 因此 5 years 的 and long-term 是 should be mandated.
Purpose: 目的 analyze treatment 嗅神 and prognostic 患者 of patients 結果 olfactory neuroblastoma.
Materials 後 Methods: Seventeen 材料 with pathology-proven 我們 neuroblastoma diagnosed 自 March 1994 到 October 2005 月 analyzed retrospectively. 本院 charts, pathology 嗅 radiology images 的 radiotherapy records 藉由 reviewed. Patients' 記錄 details of 醫學 modalities and 放射 outcome were 錄來 Sixteen patients 資料 re-staged with 細節 staging system 蹤 Kadish, Dulguerov 結果 the 6th 根據 staging system 方式 nasal cavity 分期 paranasal sinuses. 也 specimens of 方式 patients were 分化 to define 病患 tumor grading 位 Hyams' four-tier 位 There were 分布 male and 歲 female, age 分期 from 14 為 74 years 期 According to 最常見 classification, there 症狀 3 stage 其中 3 stage 於 and 10 治療 C diseases. 經過 most common 中位 was epistaxis. 時 patients received 個 at our 位 A median 且 time of 另有 months (mean: 存活 months), 6 腫瘤 were alive 有 disease and 局部 were alive 控制 disease. Locoregional 轉移 occurred in 在 patients and 身上 metastases were 存活率 in 2 無 Five-year overall 存活率 rate was 單變數 and 5-year 唯有 free survival 程度 was 42%. 有意 of surgery 因子 the only 結論 prognostic factor 研究 univariate analysis 腫瘤 In this 是 surgical intervention 義的 total removal 因子 the tumor 於 the most 廣泛 prognostic factor. 仍 treatment such 的 radiotherapy was 疾病 for advanced 線 in which 輔助 tumor was 必需 even after 手術 surgery. Radiotherapy 併 with surgical 治療 was an 有效 modality for 治療 of olfactory 提高 this combination 大部份 provide excellent 在 control. Most 的 were response 均 the initial 的 at the 的 of 55 照射 65 Gy. 規 neck irradiation 再發 not needed 治療 Local recurrence 五年 happen even 因此 years later, 的 long-term follow-up 是 be mandated.
胸 main treatment 是 thymoma is 主 The role 主要 radiotherapy is 緩解 or palliative 於 But when 上腔 state of 侵襲性 with intracardiac 會變 intracaval invasion 所以 surgery becomes 時 and radiotherapy 為 the first 胸 of treatment. 線 is relatively 敏感 Radiotherapy may 治療 satisfactory symptom 症狀 and local 控制 Recently, the 來 of technique 及 equipment including 治療 conformal radiotherapy, 隨著 modulated radiotherapy, 的 guided radiotherapy 改進 stereotactic radiosurgery 治療 the treatment 治療 of radiotherapy. 治療 techniques increase 放射 tumor dose 達到 decrease the 及 tissue dose. 劑量 report a 報告 of intracardiac 合 intracaval invasive 靜脈 treated with 線來 alone and 良好 in good 案例 control.
The 胸 treatment for 是 is surgery. 主 role of 主要 is adjuvant 緩解 palliative treatment. 於 when the 上腔 of thymoma 侵襲性 intracardiac and 會變 invasion occurs, 所以 becomes difficult 時 radiotherapy becomes 為 first choice 胸 treatment. Thymoma 線 relatively radiosensitive. 敏感 may achieve 治療 symptom relief 症狀 local control. 控制 the improvement 來 technique and 及 including three-dimensional 治療 radiotherapy, intensity 隨著 radiotherapy, image 的 radiotherapy and 改進 radiosurgery increases 治療 treatment result 治療 radiotherapy. These 治療 increase the 放射 dose and 達到 the normal 及 dose. We 劑量 a case 報告 intracardiac and 合 invasive thymoma 靜脈 with radiotherapy 線來 and resulted 良好 good local 案例
眼瞼 cell carcinoma 細胞癌 of the 皮膚 is a 治療 uncommon facial 的 The goals 控制 treatment are 後 definitive tumor 功能 and preservation 是 the functional 目前 The roles 基底 radiotherapy and 治療 in this 但 are controversial. 首選 report a 定論 male with 一例 BCC of 眼瞼 eyelid treated 患者 6 MeV 治療 beam therapy 接受 to a 後 of 5940 兩年 in 33 蹤 with an 發 shield. The 或是 responded well. 眼部 was no 我們 or serious 及 complication in 於 months of 治療 up. With 篩選 patient selection, 一種 is a 且 simple alternative 的 surgery for 控制率 of the 外觀 yielding good 亦 control and cosmetic results.
Basal 眼瞼 carcinoma (BCC) 細胞癌 the eyelid 皮膚 a relatively 治療 facial tumor. 的 goals for 控制 are both 後 tumor control 功能 preservation of 是 functional structures. 目前 roles of 基底 and surgery 治療 this regard 但 controversial. We 首選 a 77-year-old 定論 with a 一例 of the 眼瞼 treated by 患者 MeV electron 治療 therapy alone 接受 a total 後 5940 cGy 兩年 33 fractions, 蹤 an eye 發 The tumor 或是 well. There 眼部 no recurrence 我們 serious ocular 及 in 24 於 of follow 治療 With careful 篩選 selection, radiotherapy 一種 a safe, 且 alternative to 的 for BCC 控制率 the eyelid, 外觀 good local 亦 and cosmetic results.
目的 : To 一至 the prognostic 癌 for survival 接受 locoregional control 放射 patients with 之 I-IV hypopharyngeal 與 (HPC) treated 因子 curative-intent laryngeal 與 radiotherapy (LPRT).
Materials 年 Methods : 至 January 1996 共有 June 2005, 四期 patients with 癌 I-IV squamous 聲帶 carcinoma of 放射 hypopharynx were 位 in this 的 analysis. The 部位 sinus was 竇 principle site 劑量 involvement in 總劑 All patients 從 1.8 Gy 位 up to 接受 total dose 的 68.4 to 治療 Gy (median 病人 Gy). Ninety-eight 資料 (75.4%) received 以 combined with 五年 plus 5-fluorouracil 整體 Actuarial survival 有關 disease-specific survival 及 and local 控制率 survival (LRFS) 進行 calculated, and 變數 analyses were 預後有關 using the 結果 proportional hazards 的 : With 蹤 median follow-up 中 of 39 是 (range 14 月 120 months), 至 5-year AS/DSS 月 56%/64% for 三期 with stage 的 disease, 30%/43% 五年 stage III 及 and 14%/15% 有關 those with 為 IV disease. 而 5-year LRFS 第一 was 34% 三期 all patients, 之 for patients 局部 stage I-II 分別 46% for 多 III disease, 分析 18% for 第四期 with stage 腫瘤 disease (p 局部 0.004). Multivariate 的 showed that 後 disease was 結論 independent prognostic 二期 for local 癌 (p = 適合 : Patients 保留 stage I-II 至於 are suitable 病人 LPRT. Indiscriminate 局部 of LPRT 發 stage III 保留 is still 方式 because nearly 仍 of these 一步 had
unsuccessful outcomes. 此外 most patients 病患 stage IV, 治療 treatment results 預後較 poor.
More aggressive 應合 modality treatment 積極 be considered.
Purpose 目的 To investigate 一至 prognostic factors 癌 survival and 接受 control in 放射 with stage 之 hypopharyngeal cancer 與 treated with 因子 laryngeal preservation 與 (LPRT).
Materials and 年 : From 至 1996 through 共有 2005, 130 四期 with stage 癌 squamous cell 聲帶 of the 放射 were enrolled 位 this retrospective 的 The pyriform 部位 was the 竇 site of 劑量 in 126
cases. 總劑 patients received 從 Gy daily 位 to a 接受 dose of 的 to 82.4 治療 (median 70.2 病人 Ninety-eight patients 資料 received chemotherapy 以 with cisplatin 五年 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). 整體 survival (AS), 有關 survival (DSS) 及 local relapse-free 控制率 (LRFS) were 進行 and multivariate 變數 were performed 預後有關 the Cox’s 結果 hazards model.
Results 的 With a 蹤 follow-up duration 中 39 months 是 14 to 月 months), the 至 AS/DSS was 月 for patients 三期 stage I-II 的 30%/43% for 五年 III disease, 及 14%/15% for 有關 with stage 為 disease. The 而 LRFS rate 第一 34% for 三期 patients, 66% 之 patients with 局部 I-II disease, 分別 for stage 多 disease, and 分析 for those 第四期 stage IV 腫瘤 (p = 局部 Multivariate analyses 的 that stage
IV 後 was an 結論 prognostic factor 二期 local recurrence 癌 = 0.002).
Conclusions 適合 Patients with 保留 I-II disease 至於 suitable for 病人 Indiscriminate use 局部 LPRT for 發 III disease 保留 still problematic 方式 nearly half 仍 these patients 一步 outcomes. For 此外 patients with 病患 IV, the 治療 results were 預後較 aggressive combined 應合 treatment should 積極 considered.
目的 : Thymic 腺癌 is a 胸腔 malignant mediastinal 發現 It is 已 found at 預後不佳 late stage 研究 the prognosis 晚期 poor. This 病患 study reviewed 接受 treatment results 方式 patients with 結果 stage thymic 治療 and analyzed 後 prognostic factors.
Materials 與 Methods : 至 retrospective study 共有 to analyze 胸 patients with 病患 thymic carcinoma 接受 received radiotherapy 治療 our hospital 位 1992 and 位未 Because of 位有 course of 皆 lost follow-up, 討論 double cancer, 方式 patients were 線 The treatment 有些 included external 合 radiotherapy, tumor 腫瘤 or cisplatin-based 手術 radiotherapy was 的 in conventional 放射 3D conformal 以分次 The characteristics 傳統 patients, receiving 楔形 resection, chemotherapy, 是 dose of 形技術 in inoperable 原發 and treatment 研究 were analyzed 病患 find the 接受 factors for 治療 survival retrospectively.
Results 病患 The median 線劑 was 58 治療 The median 整體 dose of 影響 patients was 位 Gy. The 中位 performance status 歲 70 for 線劑 of the 數為 and above 位 for the 其餘 Seven patients 在 surgical resection, 位中 9 patients 接受 cisplatin-based chemotherapy. 有 survival
rate was 的 by receiving 治療 resection significantly 分析 univariate analysis 手術 0.017) but 可以 by the 然而 of tumor 能夠 the dose 腫瘤 radiotherapy, or 治療 In multivariate 治療 of these 無 only receiving 預後無關 resection still 分析 to improve 手術 survival rate 因素 0.046). The 義 overall survival 存活 was 26 數為 One-year survival 一年 was 78.3% 三年 3-year survival 為 was 15.3%. 人 recurrence occurred 復 5 patients, 發時間 the relapse 個 from 2 名 49 months. 局部 local control 為 of 22 結論 at 1 晚期 2 years 病患 64.6% and 治療 respectively.
Conclusion : 無 is no 整合 treatment protocol 研究 patients with 發現 stage thymic 手術 In our 重要 we found 後 resection as 未能 important prognostic 之 in advanced 而言 thymic carcinoma. 治療 unresectable thymic 的 the roles 病患 radiotherapy and 依然 ambiguous.
Purpose 目的 Thymic carcinoma 腺癌 a rare 胸腔 mediastinal tumor. 發現 is usually 已 at a 預後不佳 stage and 研究 prognosis is 晚期 This retrospective 病患 reviewed the 接受 results of 方式 with advanced 結果 thymic carcinoma 治療 analyzed the 後 factors.
Materials and 與 : This 至 study was 共有 analyze 29 胸 with advanced 病患 carcinoma who 接受 radiotherapy in 治療 hospital between 位 and 2005. 位未 of incomplete 位有 of radiotherapy, 皆 follow-up, or 討論 cancer, five 方式 were excluded. 線 treatment modality 有些 external beam 合 tumor resection 腫瘤 cisplatin-based chemotherapy.
Fractionated 手術 was given 的 conventional or 放射 conformal techniques. 以分次 characteristics of 傳統 receiving tumor 楔形 chemotherapy, the 是 of radiotherapy 形技術 inoperable patients 原發 treatment modality 研究 analyzed to 病患 the prognostic 接受 for overall 治療 retrospectively.
Results : 病患 median age 線劑 58 year-old. 治療 median radiotherapy 整體 of 24 影響 was 54.5 位 The Karnofsky 中位 status was 歲 for 4 線劑 the patients, 數為 above 80 位 the rest. 其餘 patients received 在 resection, and 位中 patients had 接受 chemotherapy. The 有 was improved 的 receiving surgical 治療 significantly in 分析 analysis (p= 手術 but not 可以 the completeness 然而 tumor resection, 能夠 dose of 腫瘤 or chemotherapy. 治療 multivariate analysis 治療 these factors, 無 receiving surgical 預後無關 still remained 分析 improve the 手術 rate (p= 因素 The median 義 survival time 存活 26 months. 數為 survival rate 一年 78.3% and 三年 survival rate 為 15.3%. Local 人 occurred in 復 patients, and 發時間 relapse time
was 個 2 to 名 months. The 局部 control rate 為 22 patients 結論 1 and 晚期 years was 病患 and 37.7% 治療 : There 無 no effective 整合 protocol for 研究 with advance 發現 thymic carcinoma. 手術 our study, 重要 found tumor 後 as an 未能 prognostic factor 之 advanced stage 而言 carcinoma. For 治療 thymic carcinoma, 的 roles of 病患 and chemotherapy
remain 依然
目的 : To 研究 the efficacy 無法 long-term survival 脈化學 between the 注射 of three-dimensional 治療 radiotherapy (3D-CRT) 發 with and 細胞癌 thalidomide for 其 hepatocellular carcinoma 空間 patients for 治療 embolization (TAE) 或 percutaneous ethanol 口服 therapy (PEIT) 竇邁 ineffective or 治療 and Methods 有所 From January 及 to October 年 37 advanced 年 patients who 位 3D-CRT at 偕 Memorial Hospital, 接受 Taiwan were 順形 in this 的 study. They 患者 diagnosed as 的 during May 研究 to September 在 Six patients 至 Child–Pugh class 被 and 2 肝 with nontumor 有 of liver 因為 40% were 以及 from this 非 Seventeen (58.6%) 肝臟 29 patients 於 given thalidomide 排除 mg/day) concomitantly 這次 3D-CRT. All 位 were delivered 共有 means of 同時合 linear accelerator 口服 6 or 竇邁 MV photons.
Radiotherapy 放射 given 5 方面 a week 加速器 fraction dose 伏特 1.6-1.8 Gy 射線 day. The 為 dose to 為 target volume 治療 from 39.6 以及 50.4 Gy 結果 Gy). Treatment 患者 survival rates 明顯 factors affecting 縮 were analyzed.
Results 治療 Primary tumor 根據 were observed 年紀 17 (59%) 無 Age (P 對 0.022) and 有 hepatitis (P 影響 0.026) significantly 患者 the tumor 出肝 survival rates 算起 the time 與 diagnosis of 的 patients at 為 2 and 開始 years were 放射 29.0% and 算起 respectively. From 與 time of 月 3D-CRT, survival 分別 at 6, 根據 and 18 血清 were 50.4%, 蛋白 and 11.3%, 對 The 1-year 有 rate was 影響 and 7.1% 多 the combined 分析 group and 下 alone group, 中甲種 On univariate 仍 both alpha-fetoprotein 有 level (P 影響 0.003) and 空間 cirrhosis (P 治療 were shown 無法 significantly affect 脈化學 On multivariate 注射 only AFP 治療 (P = 發 was shown 細胞癌 significantly affect 中等 : 3D-CRT 腫瘤 a moderate 就 control in 而言 patients who 口服 or were 竇邁 for TAE/PEIT. 有 of oral 是否 may have 患者 benefit
on short-term 品質 rate, indicating 更進 vascular disruptive 研究 could be 發現 adjunct to 的 Whether this 胎兒 improves quality 大 life remains 顯較 be determined.
In 生存率 higher serum 需 level, especially 一步 4000 IU/ml, 的 a signifi-cantly 確認 survival rate. 順形 randomized-controlled study 合 mandatory to 「 the efficacy 」 3D-CRT combined with thalidomide.
Purpose 目的 To compare 研究 efficacy and 無法 survival rates 脈化學 the treatments 注射 three-dimensional conformal 治療 (3D-CRT) combined 發 and without 細胞癌 for advanced 其 carcinoma (HCC) 空間 for whom
transarterial 治療 (TAE) or 或 ethanol injection 口服 (PEIT) was 竇邁 or unsuitable.
Materials 治療 Methods : 有所 January 2001 及 October 2004, 年 advanced HCC 年 who received 位 at Mackay 偕 Hospital, Taipei, 接受 were enrolled 順形 this retrospective 的 They were 患者 as HCC 的 May 1999 研究 September 2004. 在 patients with 至 class C 被 2 patients 肝 nontumor part 有 liver below 因為 were excluded 以及 this study. 非 (58.6%) of 肝臟 patients were 於 thalidomide (100-200 排除 concomitantly with 這次 All treatments 位 delivered by 共有 of a 同時合 accelerator using 口服 or 10 竇邁 photons.
Radiotherapy was 放射 5 days 方面 week with 加速器 dose of 伏特 Gy per 射線 The radiation 為 to the 為 volume ranged 治療 39.6 to 以及 Gy (46.8±5.1 結果 Treatment response, 患者 rates and 明顯 affecting survival 縮 analyzed.
Results : 治療 tumor responses 根據 observed in 年紀 (59%) patients. 無 (P = 對 and viral 有 (P = 影響 significantly influenced 患者 tumor response.
Overall 出肝 rates form 算起 time of 與 of 29 的 at 1, 為 and 5 開始 were 57.5%, 放射 and 10.1%, 算起 From the 與 of starting 月 survival rates 分別 6, 12 根據 18 months 血清 50.4%, 19.7% 蛋白 11.3%, respectively. 對 1-year survival 有 was 26.9% 影響 7.1% in 多 combined modality 分析 and 3D-CRT 下 group, respectively. 中甲種 univariate analysis, 仍 alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) 有 (P = 影響 and liver 空間 (P =0.036) 治療 shown to 無法 affect survival. 脈化學 multivariate analysis, 注射 AFP level 治療 = 0.001) 發 shown to 細胞癌 affect survival.
Conclusion 中等 3D-CRT provides 腫瘤 moderate tumor 就 in hepatoma 而言 who failed 口服 were unsuitable 竇邁 TAE/PEIT. Addition 有 oral thalidomide 是否 have a 患者 short-term survival 品質 indicating that 更進 disruptive agent 研究 be an 發現 to radiotherapy. 的 this combination 胎兒 quality of 大 remains to 顯較 determined.
In addition, 生存率 serum AFP 需 especially over 一步 IU/ml, had 的 signifi-cantly poor 確認 rate. Further 順形 study is 合 to identify 「 efficacy of 」 combined with thalidomide.
目的 : Superior 靜脈 cava (SVC) 由 is associated 所 malignancy in 其中 than 90% 原發 cases. Among 肺癌 lung cancers 回顧性 the most 我們 primary tumor.
The 姑息 of this 治療 study was 病患 investigate prognostic 之上 in lung 的 patients with 以及 syndrome treated 材料 palliative radiation 從 (RT).
Materials and 到 : From 我們 1996 to 位原 2003, 92 合 cancer patients 靜脈 SVC syndrome 病患 referred for 而 Clinical charts 治療 RT records 了 reviewed. All 以及 were followed 紀錄 until death. 病人 survival curves 蹤 and comparisons 其 different subgroups 運用 made by 以及 log-rank test.
Results 因子 Fifty-three of 的 patients completed 九十 planned RT 中有 Gy). The 當初 overall survival 葛雷 all patients 病患 65 days. 存活期 without distant 無遠端 at RT 相較 significantly longer 轉移 survival than 較 with distant 中位 at RT 天 vs. 49 所計劃 p = 照射 Patients receiving 相較 RT had 完成 longer median 病患 than those 長 received incomplete 存活期 (111 vs. 指數 days, p= 以上 with Karnofsky 相較 scale ＞= 於 had significantly 病患 median survival 較 those with 中位 performance scale 天 (107 vs. 有 days, p 的 0.0089). Patients 於 symptom relief 減輕 RT had 狀 longer median 患有 than those 中位 symptom relief 天 vs. 15 變異 p = 無遠端 With multivariate 顯著 only distant 的 was a 因子 prognostic factor 的 = 0.019).
Conclusion 沒有 Our analysis 指數 that no 或 metastasis at 治療 Karnofsky performance 減輕 ＞= 70%, 計劃 relief after 這四個 and RT 肺癌 were significant 上腔 prognostic factors 接受 lung cancer 治療 with SVC 之 who receivedRT.
Purpose 目的 Superior vena 靜脈 (SVC) syndrome 由 associated with 所 in more 其中 90% of 原發 Among them, 肺癌 cancers are 回顧性 most common 我們 tumor.
The aim 姑息 this retrospective 治療 was to 病患 prognostic factors 之上 lung cancer 的 with SVC 以及 treated with 材料 radiation therapy 從 and Methods 到 From January 我們 to December 位原 92 lung 合 patients with 靜脈 syndrome were 病患 for RT. 而 charts and 治療 records were 了 All patients 以及 followed up 紀錄 death. Kaplan-Meier 病人 curves were
calculated 蹤 comparisons of 其 subgroups were 運用 by the 以及 test.
Results : 因子 of 92 的 completed the 九十 RT (30 中有 The median 當初 survival for 葛雷 patients was 病患 days. Patients 存活期 distant metastasis 無遠端 RT had 相較 longer median 轉移 than those 較 distant metastasis 中位 RT (150 天 49 days, 所計劃 = 0.0038). 照射 receiving complete 相較 had significantly 完成 median survival 病患 those who 長 incomplete RT 存活期 vs. 14 指數 p= 0.0006).
Patients 以上 Karnofsky performance 相較 ＞= 70% 於 significantly longer 病患 survival than 較 with Karnofsky 中位 scale ＜70% 天 vs. 44 有 p = 的 Patients with 於 relief after 減輕 had significantly 狀 median survival 患有 those without 中位 relief (113 天 15 days, 變異 = 0.0000). 無遠端 multivariate analysis, 顯著 distant metastasis 的 a significant 因子 factor (p 的 0.019).
Conclusion : 沒有 analysis showed 指數 no distant 或 at RT, 治療 performance scale 減輕 70%, symptom 計劃 after RT, 這四個 RT completion 肺癌 significant favorable 上腔 factors for 接受 cancer patients 治療 SVC syndrome 之 receivedRT.
目的 : To 利用 a Field-in-Field 之照 for breast 技術 to produce 乳房 uniform dose 之 in the 病患 volume, and 之劑 efficiently implement 均 technique in 治療 clinic. 	 材料 and Methods 方法 Using the 計劃 planning system, 做 first employ 之 tangent fields 並 in conventional 傳統 treatment technique, 照野 without using 不 wedge. Based 濾片 the dose 兩個 resulting from 照 open tangent 再 we create 兩個 smaller fields 之 each tangent 野 to achieve 治療 more uniform 至 in the 加速器 volume. The 此六個 plan including 排成 final six 治療 are then 師在 to the 後 database. In 讓 actual treatment, 序列 six fields 一次 properly arranged 另外 that they 二維陣列 be automatically 系統 in one 計劃 without having 確性 enter the 一般 room. 	 方式 addition, to 治療 the accuracy 到 this technique, 假體 used a 一個 detector system 深度 measure the 之 dose distribution 測量 a phantom 亦 compare it 相同 the planned 測量 	 
Results 可驗證 We compared 之準 treatment plans 結果 the first 方式 patients using 個 field-in-field technique 比較 those using 和 conventional technique. 楔型 global maximum 結果 was reduced 劑 about 5%, 平均 volumes receiving 於 least 105% 減少 110% doses 於 reduced by 減少 and 70%, 治療 The total 平均 was also 病人 by about 之 The in-room 約 of each 分鐘 was reduced 之 2 minutes. 特性 
The p-values 做 these comparisons 較 all less 皆 0.05. The 量系統 between the 計劃 and 	the 之 doses were 治療 than 1.6% 內 the treatment 於 	 
Conclusion 例行 The Field-in-field 於 can produce 治療 uniform dose 使用 inside the 之照 volume for 乳癌 treatment. It 可 reduces the 得到 time and 之劑 the work 佈 for the 減少 This method 治療 been implemented 放射 routine clinical 負荷
Purpose 目的 To develop 利用 Field-in-Field technique 之照 breast treatment, 技術 produce a 乳房 dose distribution 之 the treatment 病患 and to 之劑 implement this 均 in the 治療 	 
Material 材料 Methods : 方法 the Focus 計劃 system, we 做 employ two 之 fields as 並 conventional breast 傳統 technique, but 照野 using the 不 Based on 濾片 dose distribution 兩個 from these 照 tangent fields, 再 create two 兩個 fields inside 之 tangent field, 野 achieve a 治療 uniform dose 至 the breast 加速器 The treatment 此六個 including the 排成 six fields 治療 then sent 師在 the treatment 後 In the 讓 treatment, these 序列 fields are 一次 arranged so 另外 they can 二維陣列 automatically delivered 系統 one sequence 計劃 having to 確性 the treatment 一般 	 
In 方式 to verify 治療 accuracy of 到 technique, we 假體 a 2D 一個 system to 深度 the delivered 之 distribution in 測量 phantom and 亦 it with 相同 planned results. 測量 
Results : 可驗證 compared the 之準 plans of 結果 first ten 方式 using this 個 technique with 比較 using the 和 technique. The 楔型 maximum dose 結果 reduced by 劑 5%, the 平均 receiving at 於 105% and 減少 doses were 於 by 28% 減少 70%, respectively. 治療 total MU 平均 also reduced 病人 about 48%. 之 in-room time 約 each patient 分鐘 reduced by 之 minutes. 	 特性 p-values of 做 comparisons were 較 less than 皆 The difference 量系統 the measured 計劃 	the planned 之 were less 治療 1.6% inside 內 treatment fields. 於 
Conclusion : 例行 Field-in-field technique 於 produce more 治療 dose distribution 使用 the treatment 之照 for breast 乳癌 It also 可 the treatment 得到 and lessens 之劑 work load 佈 the therapist. 減少 method has 治療 implemented for 放射 clinical use.
目的 : The 主要 of this 光劑 is to 在 the accuracy 射束 dose measurements 區劑 buildup region 確性 high energy 建立 beams by 量測 the thermoluminescence 放射 The method 頭頸部 evaluation of 劑量 dose in 評估 modulated radiotherapy 與 head and 本實驗 cancer has 三個 been developed ( this study. 板游 Materials and 假體 : The 增建 included: (1)measurements 測量 buildup dose ) phantom by 量計 ionization chamber; 假體 measurements of 區劑 dose in 測量 by thermoluminescence 熱發光 (3) measurements 於擬 surface dose 假體 head and 劑量 Rando phantom 測量 using thermoluminescence 直線 Experiments were 所產生 for 6 射束 x-ray  設備 generated by 以及 Varian 21EX 為 accelerator. The 的 included the 量計 plane- parallel 垂直 chamber and 量測 dosimeters with 游離腔 mm, 0.38 量量 and 0.1 均作 
mm in 以 respectively. For 準確 incident beams, 百分 dose measured 量值 buildup region 不同 corrected with 發光 correction equations 計量 plane-parallel ionization 評估 and then 較 the accuracy 不 the dose 入射光 in buildup 之 by using 量測 thickness thermoluminescence 則以 The dose 發光劑 phantom surface 與 obliquely incident 測量 were also 評估 and evaluated 在擬 the ultra-thin 頭頸部 mm) thermoluminescence 劑量 and plane-parallel 方面 chamber for 厚度 field size 劑量 cm × 量值 cm). For 計劃 dose on 進行 head and 結果 Rando phantom, 量量 ultra-thin thermoluminescence 方面 measurements were 發光 with the 計之測量 planning system 游離腔 	 
Results 修正 The dose 量值 in buildup 較 by using 吻合 ultra-thin thermoluminescence 於 and Markus 表面 are in 量測 agreement and 表面 former is 治療 for surface 計算值 measurements in 熱發光 application. The 計量 of surface 比 was found 大部份 treatment planning 在  calculation 有 in comparison 低估 ultra-thin thermoluminescence 討論 measurements on 厚度 and neck 劑量 phantom. 	 於 : The 量量 measured in 明顯 region is 熱發 different by 適用 TLDs in 表面 thickness. The 臨 TLD is 其測 for surface 藉以 measurement, and 治療 the comparable 比 in clinical treatment planning.
Purpose 目的 The purpose 主要 this study 光劑 to evaluate 在 accuracy of 射束 measurements in 區劑 region for 確性 energy photon 建立 by using 量測 thermoluminescence dosimeters. 放射 method in 頭頸部 of surface 劑量 in intensity 評估 radiotherapy for 與 and neck 本實驗 has also 三個 developed in ( study.  板游 and Methods 假體 The measurements 增建 (1)measurements of 測量 dose in ) by plane-parallel 量計 chamber; (2) 假體 of buildup 區劑 in phantom 測量 thermoluminescence dosimeters; 熱發光 measurements of 於擬 dose on 假體 and neck 劑量 phantom by 測量 thermoluminescence dosimeters. 直線 were performed 所產生 6 MV 射束  beams 設備 by a 以及 21EX linear 為 The instruments 的 the Markus 量計 parallel ionization 垂直 and thermoluminescence 量測 with 0.89 游離腔 0.38 mm, 量量 0.1 	 均作 in thickness, 以 For normal 準確 beams, the 百分 measured in 量值 region were 不同 with suitable 發光 equations for 計量 ionization chamber 評估 then evaluated 較 accuracy of 不 dose measurements 入射光 buildup region 之 using various 量測 thermoluminescence dosimeters. 則以 dose at 發光劑 surface for 與 incident beams 測量 also measured 評估 evaluated by 在擬 ultra-thin (0.1 頭頸部 thermoluminescence dosimeters 劑量 plane-parallel ionization 方面 for small 厚度 size (5 劑量 × 5 量值 For surface 計劃 on the 進行 and neck 結果 phantom, the 量量 thermoluminescence dosimeters 方面 were compared 發光 the treatment 計之測量 system calculations. 游離腔 
Results : 修正 dose measured 量值 buildup region 較 using the 吻合 thermoluminescence dosimeters 於 Markus chamber 表面 in good 量測 and the 表面 is suitable 治療 surface dose 計算值 in clinical 熱發光 The underestimation 計量 surface dose 比 found in 大部份 planning system 在 calculation results 有 comparison with 低估 thermoluminescence dosimeters 討論 on head 厚度 neck Rando 劑量 	 
Discussion 於 The dose 量量 in buildup 明顯 is markedly 熱發 by using 適用 in different 表面 The ultra-thin 臨 is suitable 其測 surface dose 藉以 and provides 治療 comparable reference 比 clinical treatment planning.
( 通常以良性發展的病程表現， 經常好發於兒童和少年。	 ( 如椎骨部位）， 放射線治療常被當作一種替代性療法。在本篇論文中， . 病人也獲得明顯的神經學不適的改善且無嚴重的放療後副作用。再者， 基於此臨床經驗及文獻回顧， .
動脈瘤樣骨囊腫是一種稀有的疾病， ( 經常好發於兒童和少年。	 
根治性手術仍是現今主要的治癒性療法。若是適切的手術會造成了顯著的疾病傷害或不良的外觀變化（ ( 放射線治療常被當作一種替代性療法。在本篇論文中， 我們提出了一個病例以確切性放射線治療於腰椎骨的巨大動脈瘤樣骨囊腫。放療後的後續影像學追蹤證實了相對令人滿意的腫瘤治療反應。短期的追蹤觀察期裡， . 基於此臨床經驗及文獻回顧， 我們更可闡明放射線治療於動脈瘤樣骨囊腫的治療角色。
嗅神 neuroblastoma (ONB) 細胞瘤 a rare 一種 tumor of 於 olfactory mucosa 黏膜 has been 腫瘤 treated with 在 surgical excision. 中少 these rare 腫瘤 are still 治療 with high 以 of tumor 進行 and mortality. 常伴 novel therapeutic 復 using intensity 及 radiotherapy (IMRT) 本 presented in 以 report. 	 調控式 would like 技術 report a 的 years old 歲 worker who 建築 referred to 臉頰 department due 超過 a chief 月 of progressive 診所 cheek pain 後 right side 疼痛 for 1 改善 The patient 有 been previously 的 by a 因而 who performed 求診 tooth extraction; 日 this did 電腦 his right 檢查 pain. A 上 scan of 有 paranasal sinuses 並 on May 額骨 2004 revealed 竇 large enhancing 破壞 in the 進 maxillary sinus 切片 right frontal, 檢查 and sphenoid 腫塊 bone destruction. 神經母 patient was 特異 to the 酶 of ENT 為陽性 biopsy of 是 unresectable tumor. 放射 pathologic finding 治療 that of 自 olfactory neuroblastoma, 日至 the tumor 月 positive  期間 neuron specific 次 IMRT was 靜脈 to the 化學 for a 月 dose of 顯示 cGy (June 頜 2004 to 有 20, 2004) 腫瘤 with 2 月 of cisplatin 殘存 infusion at 給予 mg/m2 per 加強 	 
A 量 CT scan 治療 Sept. 9, 臉頰 revealed a 的 enhancing tumor 獲解決 right maxillary 追 with bone 檢 A very 額 field IMRT 竇 for 3300 蝶 was then 位置 from Oct. 的 2004 to 沒有 4, 2004. 復 patient completed 跡象 whole course 副作用 radiotherapy smoothly 鼻淚管 no treatment　break. 所 CT scan 右眼 the sinus 狹窄 on Dec.31, 以手術 revealed only 解除 maxillary, ethmoid 結束 sphenoid sinusitis 月 no evidence 雙眼 tumor recurrence. 視力 induced right 的 duct stenosis 已 obstruction, tearing 個 the right 有 and decreased 復 of both 他系 was noted 疾病 months after 於 The stenosis 的 successfully corrected 併 surgical ntervention. 化學 patient is 另 well and 選擇 29 months 方式 IMRT with 可以 evidence of 最大 recurrence or 線劑 disease. 	 並保護 in conjunction 組織 weekly cisplatin 副作用 be considered 然而 a treatment 的 in patients 治療 unresectable olfactory 中 since this 神經 can deliver 輻射劑 adequate tumorical 而 however, it 病患 unfortunate that 損傷 patient developed 的 vision impairment 可以 to the 正常 radiation dose 的 the optic 要 Careful IMRT 所有 planning is 的 to avoid 減輕 untoward side 的
Olfactory 嗅神 (ONB) is 細胞瘤 rare aggressive 一種 of the 於 mucosa that 黏膜 been traditionally 腫瘤 with radical 在 excision. Nevertheless, 中少 rare tumors 腫瘤 still associated 治療 high rates 以 tumor recurrence 進行 mortality. A 常伴 therapeutic approach 復 intensity modulated 及 (IMRT) is 本 in this 以 	 
We 調控式 like to 技術 a 67 的 old construction 歲 who was 建築 to our 臉頰 due to 超過 chief complaint 月 progressive right 診所 pain and 後 side toothache 疼痛 1 month. 改善 patient has 有 previously seen 的 a dentist 因而 performed a 求診 extraction; however, 日 did not　resolve 電腦 right cheek 檢查 A CT 上 of the 有 sinuses performed 並 May 13, 額骨 revealed a 竇 enhancing tumor 破壞 the right 進 sinus with 切片 frontal, ethmoid 檢查 sphenoid sinuses 腫塊 destruction. The 神經母 was referred 特異 the department 酶 ENT for 為陽性 of the 是 tumor. The 放射 finding was 治療 of an 自 neuroblastoma, with 日至 tumor staining 月  for 期間 specific enolase. 次 was given 靜脈 the patient 化學 a total 月 of 6300 顯示 (June 30, 頜 to August 有 2004) concurrently 腫瘤 2 course 月 cisplatin iv 殘存 at 30 給予 per week. 加強 
A repeat 量 scan on 治療 9, 2004 臉頰 a residual 的 tumor of 獲解決 maxillary sinus 追 bone invasion. 檢 very small 額 IMRT boost 竇 3300 cGy 蝶 then given 位置 Oct. 1, 的 to Nov. 沒有 2004. The 復 completed the 跡象 course of 副作用 smoothly with 鼻淚管 treatment　break. A 所 scan of 右眼 sinus performed 狹窄 Dec.31, 2006 以手術 only frontal, 解除 ethmoid and 結束 sinusitis with 月 evidence of 雙眼 recurrence. Radiation 視力 right nasolacrimal 的 stenosis and 已 tearing of 個 right eye, 有 decreased vision 復 both eyes 他系 noted 15 疾病 after IMRT. 於 stenosis was 的 corrected by 併 ntervention. The 化學 is still 另 and alive 選擇 months after 方式 with no 可以 of local 最大 or systemic 線劑 	 
IMRT 並保護 conjunction with 組織 cisplatin should 副作用 considered as 然而 treatment option 的 patients with 治療 olfactory neuroblastoma 中 this technique 神經 deliver an 輻射劑 tumorical dose; 而 it is 病患 that the 損傷 developed significant 的 impairment due 可以 the high 正常 dose to 的 optic nerves. 要 IMRT treatment 所有 is necessary 的 avoid or　minimize 減輕 side effects.
目的 Escalating radiotherapy 攝護 results in 放射 substantial improvement 對 prostate cancer 顯著 Obtaining an 要 plan and 一個 dose distribution 治療 be limited 量 normal critical 於 Our study 正常 to evaluate 的 effect of 探討 balloon immobilization 強度 reducing rectal 治療 during daily 時 of prostate 擴張 with intensity 對 radiation therapy 量 and Methods: 材料 June 2005 自 August 2005, 月 patients with 攝護 cancer underwent 病患 tomography (CT) 時 with and 有 rectal balloon 擴張 with 60ml 內 before and 及 the end 置放 IMRT course. 氣球 Helax treatment ( system was 並且 to generate 結束 five coplanar-field 接受 plans. Plans 直腸 separately designed 的 and without 定位 rectal balloon. 計劃 prescription dose 出靜 clinical target ) (CTV) was 共 Gy in 計畫 fractions of 有 Gy each. 擴張 was determined 有 to the 擴張氣 risk category. 作 dose to 的 of planning 臨床 volume (PTV) ( 78 Gy. 給予 dose-volume histograms 分 were analyzed 是 the CTV, 所屬 rectum, and 而 Inter-fractional prostate 目標 was measured ) two separate 體積 images with 到 distance between 的 bone rim/sacrum ( anterior/posterior borders 直腸及 prostate, respectively, 接受 the cranial 分 of pubic 間 To assess 誤差 dosimetric difference 是 inter-fractional variation 在 balloon setup, 最靠近 paired Student 那一張 was used.
Results: 骨緣 included in 及 study had 骨 TNM stage 用成 of T1cN0M0 檢定 4 patients, 差異 in 4 治療 T3bN0M0 in 的 patients, and 本 in 1 於 CTV was 病患 alone in 病患 patients and 而 plus bilateral 病患 vesicles in 攝護腺 patients. Minimum 病患 to CTV 兩側 and without 的 rectal balloon 病患 both 79 劑量 in average. 為 segment number 多 plans with 片段 without a 的 balloon were 有 and 42 有 respectively. Plans 擴張 a rectal 治療 showed a 為 reduction in 有 volume fraction 擴張 65 Gy 治療 vs 17%, 接受 and at 的 Gy (9% 有 13%, P=0.005). 降低 with a ( balloon did 為 show difference 接受 bladder volume 體積 at 65 治療 (18% vs 沒有 P=0.07). Inter-fractional 及 positions before 誤差 at the 之前 of IMRT 結束 similar in 的 distance from 攝護腺 bone to 距離 border (0.90cm ) 0.96cm, P=0.6), 骨 posterior border 為 prostate to ) (3.69cm vs 都 P=0.8). All 在 tolerated their 療程 IMRT course 放置 daily placement 氣球 rectal balloon. 發生 was no 或 Ⅲ acute 反應 
Conclusion: Rectal 腺癌 immobilization during 使用 fractionated IMRT 定位 prostate cancer 可行 a feasible 複 reproducible procedure. 的 would be 可以 to reduce 直腸 dose to 量 rectum. The 的 of prostate 好且 is acceptable 攝護腺 minimal inter-fractional 誤差 variation.
Purpose: 目的 radiotherapy dose 攝護 in a 放射 improvement in 對 cancer outcome. 顯著 an optimal 要 and acceptable 一個 distribution would 治療 limited by 量 critical structures. 於 study is 正常 evaluate the 的 of rectal 探討 immobilization in 強度 rectal dose 治療 daily treatment 時 prostate cancer 擴張 intensity modulated 對 therapy (IMRT).
Materials 量 Methods: From 材料 2005 to 自 2005, 11 月 with prostate 攝護 underwent computed 病患 (CT) simulations 時 and without 有 balloon (filled 擴張 60ml air) 內 and at 及 end of 置放 course. TMS 氣球 treatment planning ( was used 並且 generate step-and-shoot 結束 coplanar-field IMRT 接受 Plans were 直腸 designed with 的 without a 定位 balloon. The 計劃 dose to 出靜 target volume ) was 78 共 in 39 計畫 of 2 有 each. CTV 擴張 determined according 有 the patients' 擴張氣 category. The 作 to 95% 的 planning target 臨床 (PTV) was ( Gy. Cumulative 給予 histograms (DVHs) 分 analyzed for 是 CTV, PTV, 所屬 and bladder. 而 prostate displacement 目標 measured on ) separate CT 體積 with the 到 between pubic 的 rim/sacrum and ( borders of 直腸及 respectively, at 接受 cranial level 分 pubic symphysis. 間 assess the 誤差 difference and 是 variation of 在 setup, the 最靠近 Student t-test 那一張 used.
Results: Patients 骨緣 in this 及 had the 骨 stage distribution 用成 T1cN0M0 in 檢定 patients, T2bN0M0 差異 4 patients, 治療 in 2 的 and T4N0M0 本 1 patient. 於 was prostate 病患 in 8 病患 and prostate 而 bilateral seminal 病患 in 3 攝護腺 Minimum dose 病患 CTV with 兩側 without a 的 balloon were 病患 79 Gy 劑量 average. Average 為 number in 多 with and 片段 a rectal 的 were 43 有 42 (P=0.7), 有 Plans with 擴張 rectal balloon 治療 a significant 為 in rectal 有 fraction at 擴張 Gy (13% 治療 17%, P=0.007), 接受 at 70 的 (9% vs 有 P=0.005). Plans 降低 a rectal ( did not 為 difference in 接受 volume fraction 體積 65 Gy 治療 vs 16%, 沒有 Inter-fractional prostate 及 before and 誤差 the end 之前 IMRT were 結束 in the 的 from pubic 攝護腺 to anterior 距離 (0.90cm vs ) P=0.6), and 骨 border of 為 to sacrum ) vs 3.73cm, 都 All patients 在 their whole 療程 course with 放置 placement of 氣球 balloon. There 發生 no grade 或 acute toxicity. 反應 Rectal balloon 腺癌 during daily 使用 IMRT for 定位 cancer is 可行 feasible and 複 procedure. It 的 be beneficial 可以 reduce high 直腸 to the 量 The effect 的 prostate immobilization 好且 acceptable with 攝護腺 inter-fractional setup 誤差
目的 The objective 嘉義 this study 來 to evaluate 放射 initial treatment 骨髓移植 of total 初步 irradiation (TBI) 與 patients with 月 marrow transplantation 月 who were 白血病 to the 要 Christian Hospital 病患 and Methods: 嘉義 August 2002 做 August 2004, 當中 patients of 完成 or lymphoma 全身 referred to 另外 Chai-Yi Christian 做 for TBI 模擬 BMT. Ten 放射 TBI, and 位 other two 在 the simulation 照射 only. For 一位 nine received 了 cGy in 次 fractions over 我們 days, and 射源 child received 病患 cGy in 距離 fractions over 技術 days. The 機器 from focus 的 linear accelerator 伏特 to middle 量 of patients 每 600cm. We 到 6MeV photon 所有 the dose 都 of 300 消毒 400 monitor 做 (MU) per 並住 with a 的 LA, but 我們 a compensator. 的 patients were 前後順型 to the 公分 ward under 擋 aseptic environment. 後 placed a 照射 lung partial 入射 over thermoplastic 患者 on the 處裝置 chest and 厚 the APPA 平板 technique with 月止 2cm-thick acrylic 做 around 10cm 治療 of the 患者 Of the 位還 patients who 患者 TBI, five 位 till January 抗 Only one 而 experienced chronic 的 vursus host 其他 with oral 患者 and the 發 had no 併 or complications, 當中 a patient 一位 T-anaplastic cell 的 who had 化療 partial remission 部分 the chemotherapy. 在 the five 的 patients, four 沒 to achieve 到 remission and 緩解並 within two 月 due to 植體 failure, secondary 早期 not related 與 TBI, or 治療 relapse. Two 次 them also 死去 venous occlusive 兩位 disease. The 阻塞性 who had 達到 remission was 的 case of 一位 lymphoblastic leukemia 性 acquired fungal 患者 three months 個 the BMT 得 by the 感染 and died 又 years later. 發 two patients 年 went through 做 alone had 的 relapse, and 為 episodes hindered 復 from receiving 感染 Our results 的 that infections 全身 to the 结論 of patients 結果 not appear 旅途 be a 感染 prognostic factor 轉來 TBI of 全身 patients referred 的 other hospitals. 預後參 the follow-up 重要 is short 數少且 patient number 時 small, we 長 the initial 初步 satisfactory. Selection 接受 patients is 患者 for better 更好 but partial 但 from initial 化療 may not 反應並 destine to 一定
Purpose: 目的 objective of 嘉義 study is 來 evaluate the 放射 treatment outcome 骨髓移植 total body 初步 (TBI) in 與 with bone 月 transplantation (BMT) 月 were referred 白血病 the Chai-Yi 要 Hospital (CYCH).
Materials 病患 Methods: From 嘉義 2002 to 做 2004, 12 當中 of leukemia 完成 lymphoma were 全身 to the 另外 Christian Hospital 做 TBI before 模擬 Ten received 放射 and the 位 two received 在 simulation procedure 照射 For TBI, 一位 received 1200 了 in 6 次 over three 我們 and a 射源 received 1320 病患 in 6 距離 over three 技術 The distance 機器 focus of 的 accelerator (LA) 伏特 middle abdomen 量 patients was 每 We used 到 photon at 所有 dose rates 都 300 and 消毒 monitor unit 做 per minute 並住 a Varian 的 but without 我們 compensator. All 的 were admitted 前後順型 the BMT 公分 under partial 擋 environment. We 後 a 1cm 照射 partial block 入射 thermoplastic shell 患者 the patient's 處裝置 and applied 厚 APPA projection 平板 with a 月止 acrylic sheet 做 10cm ahead 治療 the patient.
Results: 患者 the ten 位還 who received 患者 five survived 位 January 2005. 抗 one patient 而 chronic graft 的 host disease 其他 oral mucositis, 患者 the others 發 no relapse 併 complications, including 當中 patient with 一位 cell lymphoma 的 had only 化療 remission after 部分 chemotherapy. Of 在 five expired 的 four failed 沒 achieve complete 到 and died 緩解並 two months 月 to graft 植體 secondary infections 早期 related to 與 or early 治療 Two of 次 also had 死去 occlusive liver 兩位 The patient 阻塞性 had complete 達到 was a 的 of acute 一位 leukemia who 性 fungal infection 患者 months after 個 BMT followed 得 the relapse 感染 died 1.5 又 later. The 發 patients who 年 through simulation 做 had persistent 的 and infection 為 hindered them 復 receiving TBI.
Conclusion: 感染 results suggest 的 infections related 全身 the transportation 结論 patients did 結果 appear to 旅途 a key 感染 factor in 轉來 of BMT 全身 referred from 的 hospitals. Although 預後參 follow-up time 重要 short and 數少且 number is 時 we consider 長 initial outcome 初步 Selection of 接受 is essential 患者 better result, 更好 partial remission 但 initial chemotherapy 化療 not necessarily 反應並 to failure.
目的 The intensity 新 radiation therapy 調控 quality assurance 治療 by film 藉由 a very 來 job when 放射 the new 保證 of IMRT 的 treat tumor. 本 aim of 為 study is 一系列 to measure 測量 characteristic of 並 GafChromic EBT 方式 calibration and 最後將 a procedure 口腔癌 reading, then 病患 do an 度量 cavity dosimetry 劑量 buccal and 方法 cancers.
Materials and 的 We use 進行 new developed 特性 EBT film 並 oral cavity 程序 study in 放置 work. First, 之 measure the 直接 of the 病人 and establish 對 procedure for 放射 Second, we 其劑 the film 所得 the solid 與 phantom's reference 比較 and the 這一種 oral cavity 量 do oral 證臨 dosimetry for 得到 We have 結果 the results 研究 treatment planning 進行 Our oral 治療 dosimetry can 皆 the real 的 dose in 以 situation.
Results: The 之幾何 dosimetry results 模擬 solid water 照野 are 2% 結果 than treatment 多 system in 的 one, and 比 less than 而 planning system 輻射 case two. 口腔癌 oral cavity 結果 the error 計畫 2.56% for 誤差 cancer and ~ for tongue 舌癌 By this 與 we can 相比 the structure 為 characteristic of ~ newly developed 經由本 as well 之 establish procedure 特性 calibration and 一套 In order 計讀 reduce error 建議 increase accuracy, 該 also made 事項 for using 誤差 film to 藉由 dose measurements. 方式 patient oral 於 dosimetry, we 其劑 achieve the 到 of quality 目的
Purpose: 目的 intensity modulated 新 therapy (IMRT) 調控 assurance (QA) 治療 film is 藉由 very important 來 when using 放射 new technique 保證 IMRT to 的 tumor. The 本 of this 為 is first 一系列 measure the 測量 of the 並 EBT film, 方式 and establish 最後將 procedure of 口腔癌 then we 病患 an oral 度量 dosimetry for 劑量 and tongue 方法 and Methods: 的 use the 進行 developed GafChromic 特性 film for 並 cavity dosimetry 程序 in this 放置 First, we 之 the characteristic 直接 the film 病人 establish a 對 for reading. 放射 we put 其劑 film into 所得 solid water 與 reference point 比較 the patient's 這一種 cavity to 量 oral cavity 證臨 for IMRT. 得到 have compared 結果 results with 研究 planning system. 進行 oral cavity 治療 can verify 皆 real tumor 的 in clinic 以 The measured 之幾何 results for 模擬 water phantom 照野 2% more 結果 treatment planning 多 in case 的 and 3.7% 比 than treatment 而 system in 輻射 two. For 口腔癌 cavity dosimetry, 結果 error is 計畫 for buccal 誤差 and 5.26% ~ tongue cancer
Conclusion: 舌癌 this study, 與 can understand 相比 structure and 為 of this ~ developed film 經由本 well as 之 procedure of 特性 and readings. 一套 order to 計讀 error and 建議 accuracy, we 該 made suggestions 事項 using this 誤差 to do 藉由 measurements. Through 方式 oral cavity 於 we can 其劑 the goal 到 quality assurance.
目的 External-beam radiotherapy 線 breast cancer 早已 been shown 以 reduce the 復 recurrence. The 由 important gains 大 often offset 病患 side effect. 治療 major contributing 大打折扣 to these 發症 is the 原因 of the 對照 distribution from 劑量 irradiation. The 所導致 of this 的 is to 一個 out the 的 method for 照射 irradiation which 希望 be applied 於 clinical patient 上 in the 在 
Materials and 研究 Several treatment 斜 for tangential 分別 irradiation were 方式 in this 比 The comparisons 第一 two subjects. 計劃 some clinical 較 factors were 利用 in the 洗 of planning. 治療 we will 確度 the delivery 治療 and delivery 精準度 for all 四種 using phantom 運用 GAFCHROMIC film. 乳癌 following four 掃描 techniques were 執行 for 6 斜 conventional tangents, 算式 modulated radiotherapy 治療 only tangents, 斜 IMRT tangents, 調強 conventional open 傳統 IMRT tangents 放療 IMRT). 
Result: 放療 IMRT only 結果 forward IMRT 對照 and Hybrid 混合型 achieved dose 算式 better than 與 tangents. The 放療 of tissue 可達成 the planning 分布 volume receiving 組織 of prescribed 劑量 was largest 斜 conventional tangents. 的 volume ＞30 大 was largest 以反 IMRT only 放療 Average total 患部 volume ＞20 劑量 was largest 調強 IMRT only 比較 too. Compare 治療 result in 結果 and calculation. 的 TPS showed 都 agreement with 但 measurement in 邊緣 techniques. However, 高估 was found 結論 there were 調強 discrepancies in 提升 surface of 的 phantom. 
Conclusion 勻度 Discussion: The 是 IMRT improve 增加 uniformity of 前提 The most 減少 is reducing 的 dose area 此外 the surrounding 治療 tissue while 執行 increase dose 時間 lung. Besides, 傳統 and treatment 不 for hybrid 機器 is almost 造成 same with conventional technique.
Purpose: 目的 radiotherapy for 線 cancer has 早已 shown to 以 the local 復 The potentially 由 gains are 大 offset by 病患 effect. A 治療 contributing factor 大打折扣 these complications 發症 the inhomogeneity 原因 the dose 對照 from tangential 劑量 The objective 所導致 this study 的 to find 一個 the optimal 的 for breast 照射 which would 希望 applied for 於 patient treatment 上 the future. 在 and Methods: 研究 treatment techniques 斜 tangential breast 分別 were evaluated 方式 this study. 比 comparisons include 第一 subjects. First, 計劃 clinical relevant 較 were compared 利用 the result 洗 planning. Second, 治療 will verify 確度 delivery accuracy 治療 delivery time 精準度 all techniques 四種 phantom and 運用 film. The 乳癌 four plan 掃描 were applied 執行 6 patients: 斜 tangents, Intensity 算式 radiotherapy (IMRT) 治療 tangents, forward 斜 tangents, and 調強 open plus 傳統 tangents (Hybrid 放療 
Result: The 放療 only tangents, 結果 IMRT tangents 對照 Hybrid IMRT 混合型 dose distributions 算式 than conventional 與 The volume 放療 tissue outside 可達成 planning target 分布 receiving ＞110% 組織 prescribed dose 劑量 largest for 斜 tangents. Heart 的 ＞30 Gy 大 largest for 以反 only tangents. 放療 total lung 患部 ＞20 Gy 劑量 largest for 調強 only tangents 比較 Compare the 治療 in measurement 結果 calculation. Overall, 的 showed good 都 with the 但 in all 邊緣 However, it 高估 found that 結論 were significant 調強 in the 提升 of the 的 
Conclusion and 勻度 The hybrid 是 improve the 增加 of target. 前提 most important 減少 reducing high 的 area to 此外 surrounding soft 治療 while no 執行 dose to 時間 Besides, planning 傳統 treatment time 不 hybrid techniques 機器 almost the 造成 with conventional technique.
: The health : program is : important intervention . by nurses, . help patients . self care . health promotion . or skills. . purpose of : study is : examine the : of nutritional . program on . and satisfaction . cancer patients . their family.
Methods: . design was . in one . of subjects . study. A : of 34 : were enrolled : this study. ( carried out ( structural education ( regarding nutrition, ＜ side effects, ＜ appropriate diet ＜ cancer patients ) a radiotherapy ) of medical . in Taiwan.
Results: . statistical results . that the . of knowledge . 8.72 after . program was . higher than . of 3.03 . baseline (p＜0.05). ( score of ( correlated with ( educational level. ) with the ) of senior ( school or ( had a ( score of ＜ The percentage ＜ satisfaction was ＜ after education ) significantly higher ) that (80%) ) baseline (p＜0.05).
Conclusion: . nutritional education . had significant . on knowledge : satisfaction of : patients and . family.
Purpose: : health education : is an : intervention provided . nurses, to . patients in . care and . promotion information . skills. The . of this : is to : the effects : nutritional education . on knowledge . satisfaction of . patients and . family.
Methods: Pre/post-test . was used . one group . subjects this . A total : 34 subjects : enrolled in : study. We ( out a ( education program ( nutrition, radiation-related ＜ effects, and ＜ diet for ＜ patients in ) radiotherapy clinic ) medical center . Taiwan.
Results: The . results revealed . the score . knowledge was . after education . was significantly . than that . 3.03 at . (p＜0.05). The ( of knowledge ( with the ( level. Subjects ) the degree ) senior high ( or higher ( a higher ( of knowledge. ＜ percentage of ＜ was 87% ＜ education program, ) higher than ) (80%) at ) (p＜0.05).
Conclusion: The . education program . significant effects . knowledge and : of cancer : and their .
原發性 lymphoid tissue 相關 lymphoma in 淋巴瘤 larynx represents 的 very rare 腫瘤 in primary 文獻中 tumors and 病例 more than 早期 cases have 粘膜 reported in 組織 literatures. We 同時伴 a case 喉炎 with early 螺旋 MALT lymphoma 病患 larynx associated 線 chronic laryngitis 月 gastric H. 復 infection. Local 後 was noted 化學 months after 抗體 Recurrent disease 病情 poor response 改善 chemotherapy and 之 therapy. Salvage 切除 with total 連續 was performed. 個 evidence of 局部 was observed 的 16 months 喉 follow-up. The 淋巴 of primary 治療 lymphoma in 是 larynx remains 一項 challenge. We 我們 the literatures 有關 the clinical 組織 pathophysiology, treatment 床表現 and outcomes 策略 MALT lymphoma, 並針 try to 病患 the poor 不彰 result of 解釋 case.
Mucosa-associated 原發性 tissue (MALT) 相關 in the 淋巴瘤 represents a 的 rare entity 腫瘤 primary malignant 文獻中 and no 病例 than 15 早期 have been 粘膜 in the 組織 We present 同時伴 case diagnosed 喉炎 early stage 螺旋 lymphoma of 病患 associated with 線 laryngitis and 月 H. pylon 復 Local relapse 後 noted six 化學 after radiotherapy. 抗體 disease revealed 病情 response for 改善 and anti-CD20 之 Salvage surgery 切除 total laryngectomy 連續 performed. No 個 of disease 局部 observed after 的 months of 喉 The treatment 淋巴 primary MALT 治療 in the 是 remains a 一項 We review 我們 literatures of 有關 clinical features, 組織 treatment modalities 床表現 outcomes of 策略 lymphoma, and 並針 to explain 病患 poor treatment 不彰 of our 解釋
我們 report a 一位 of a 病人 female with 淋巴 breast cancer 表現 with right 位置 lymph nodes 乳癌 The initial 症狀 was swelling 腋下 pain of 乳房 axilla without 摸 breast mass. 乳房 revealed no 發現 or microcalcification 只有 breast tissue 腋下 multiple hyperdense 高 axillary lymphadenopathy. 的 tomography scan 正子 increasing FDG 結果 of right 腋下 and right 邊鎖 lymph nodes. 結陽性 of lymph 細胞 revealed metastatic 後 with positive 淋巴腺 receptor and 態為 receptor. These 腺癌 suggested an 體與黃體 cancer of 體皆為 breast with 以上 axillary lymph 病人 metastases. The 位置 received right 乳癌 lymph nodes 接受 followed by 腋下 with lipodox 清除 taxotere. Adjuvant 治療 to the 繼續 breast and 及右鎖 supraclavicular area 淋巴 given. The 治療 is well 治療 evidence of 蹤 after the treatment.
We 我們 a case 一位 a 53-year-old 病人 with occult 淋巴 cancer presenting 表現 right axillary 位置 nodes metastases. 乳癌 initial presentation 症狀 swelling and 腋下 of right 乳房 without palpable 摸 mass. Mammography 乳房 no mass 發現 microcalcification in 只有 tissue except 腋下 hyperdense right 高 lymphadenopathy. Positron-emission 的 scan showed 正子 FDG uptake 結果 right axillary 腋下 right supuraclavicular 邊鎖 nodes. Biopsy 結陽性 lymph node 細胞 metastatic carcinoma 後 positive estrogen 淋巴腺 and progesterone 態為 These data 腺癌 an occult 體與黃體 of the 體皆為 with right 以上 lymph nodes 病人 The patient 位置 right axillary 乳癌 nodes dissection 接受 by chemotherapy 腋下 lipodox and 清除 Adjuvant radiotherapy 治療 the right 繼續 and right 及右鎖 area was 淋巴 The patient 治療 well without 治療 of disease 蹤 the treatment.
﻿ : Recent 研究 suggest that 乳房 patients with 病患 recur-rences are 區域 associated with 與 morbidity and 轉移 with sys-temic 關性 The present 是 sought to 清 the correlation 藉由 radical locoregional 去 with the 乳癌 of further 發 recurrence, secondary 並進 and the 材料 of survival. 年 
Materials and 年 : Breast 大 patients who 之 treated for 符合 isolated postmastectomy 切除 recurrence without 且 evidence of 復 metastasis were 並無 from 1992 並經 2001. Isolated 之 recurrence (ILRR) 回顧 
was defined 發 any recurrence 乳癌 tumor in 發 ipsilateral chest 同側 mastectomy scar, 後 infraclavicular, axillary, 疤痕 internal mammary 下鎖 node (LN), 等 no 	 若 metastasis. A 在 of 60 則稱 with a 轉移 age of 其 years (range 歲 years) were 進入 The majority 最常 recurrences occurred 同側 the chest 切除 and around 之 mastectomy scar 比例 Supra- or 下鎖 LN recurrence 發生率 
ed 22% 及 all ILRR, 結之發 axillary failure 其中 16%. Fifty-four 局部 received irradiation 接受 local tumor 而 Six patients 病患 received radiotherapy 線 part of 第一 primary treatment. 在 these cases, 有 involved-field radiotherapy 單獨 given in 放射 patients, while 其他 patients were 和 with both 區域 and elective-field 治療 wall and 同側 lymphatics) locoregional 局部 Adjuvant systemic 之 con-sisting of 則 tamoxifen, cytotoxic 全身 or both, 賀爾蒙 with the 或合 tumor, had 化學 applied in 病人 of patients. 追 
Results : 個 a median 胸壁 of 51.5 患者 the 4-year 年 overall survival 而 after ILRR 下鎖 67% for 發 with chest 發後之 recurrence. Patients 則為 either axillary, 顯示 or infraclavicular- 年 had a 在 OS of 這組 The 4-year 復 survival (DFS) 分別 chest wall ％ and either 復 supra- or 患者 recurrence was 間 and 52%, 以上 Seventy-six percent 年 patients 	 ％ a disease-free 發 of at 之 2 years 隔 relapse) survived 等 years follow-ing 復 as compared 存活率 4-year OS 等 39% in 患者 with disease-free 區域 of less 之高 2 years 為 relapse) (P 和 .04). The 放射 of second 患者 was 8.3% 發率則 both involved- 為 elective-field locoregional 接受 as compared 放射 22.2% with 之 irradiation alone. 發後之 who were ％ with both 存活率 and 	 局部性 locoregional irradiation 區域 the 4-year 線 of 69%, 其 the 4-year 存活率 of 57%, 無病 to 55% 存活率 48% of 無病 who were 於 with involved-field 分析 alone (OS, 追加 = .21; 其 P = 年 Furthermore, 64% 而 who had 性 treated with 之 systemic therapy 發後之 4 years ％ ILRR, as 同樣 to 43% 於 those without 性 systemic therapy 患者 = .08). 發後之 recurrent patients 為 
with adjuvant 追加 therapy experienced 治療 4-year DFS 復 60%, compared 存活率 33% for 等 without systemic 有 after ILRR 患者 = .38) 治療 : A 可 portion of 的 patients with 很長 recur-rence sustain 無病 unexpected long 面 and OS 切除 curative therapy. 乳癌 com-prehensive radiotherapy 單獨 be used 發 provide optimal 局部 control and 適當 prevent secondary 和 in patients with ILRR.
﻿Purpose ﻿ Recent data 研究 that postmastectomy 乳房 with locoregional 病患 are frequently 區域 with considerable 與 and present 轉移 sys-temic failure. 關性 present study 是 to clarify 清 correlation of 藉由 locoregional therapy 去 the prevention 乳癌 further local 發 secondary spread, 並進 the improvement 材料 survival. 	 年 and Methods 年 Breast cancer 大 who were 之 for an 符合 postmastectomy locoregional 切除 without simultaneous 且 of distant 復 were selected 並無 1992 to 並經 Isolated locoregional 之 (ILRR) 	 回顧 defined as 發 recurrence of 乳癌 in the 發 chest wall, 同側 scar, supraclavicular, 後 axillary, or 疤痕 mammary lymph 下鎖 (LN), with 等 	 
other 若 A total 在 60 patients, 則稱 a median 轉移 of 47 其 (range 29-75 歲 were included. 進入 majority of 最常 occurred at 同側 chest wall 切除 around the 之 scar (62%). 比例 or infraclavicular 下鎖 recurrence represent-	 發生率 22% of 及 ILRR, and 結之發 failure represented 其中 Fifty-four patients 局部 irradiation after 接受 tumor excision. 而 patients had 病患 radiotherapy as 線 of their 第一 treatment. In 在 cases, the 有 radiotherapy was 單獨 in 36 放射 while 24 其他 were treated 和 both involved-field 區域 elective-field (chest 治療 and regional 同側 locoregional irradiation. 局部 systemic therapy 之 of either 則 cytotoxic chemotherapy, 全身 both, along 賀爾蒙 the recurrent 或合 had been 化學 in 68.3% 病人 patients. 	 追 : With 個 median follow-up 胸壁 51.5 months, 患者 4-year actuarial 年 survival (OS) 而 ILRR was 下鎖 for patients 發 chest wall 發後之 Patients with 則為 axillary, supra- 顯示 infraclavicular- recurrence 年 a 4-year 在 of 56%. 這組 4-year disease-free 復 (DFS) for 分別 wall recurrence ％ either axillary, 復 or infra-clavicular- 患者 was 56% 間 52%, respectively. 以上 percent of 年 	 
with ％ disease-free interval 發 at least 之 years (late 隔 survived 4 等 follow-ing ILRR, 復 compared to 存活率 OS of 等 in those 患者 disease-free interval 區域 less than 之高 years (early 為 (P = 和 The incidence 放射 second ILRR 患者 8.3% with 發率則 involved- and 為 locoregional irradiation 接受 compared to 放射 with ﻿involved-field 之 alone. Patients 發後之 were treated ％ both involved-field 存活率 	 
elective-field 局部性 irradiation had 區域 4-year OS 線 69%, and 其 4-year DFS 存活率 57%, compared 無病 55% and 存活率 of those 無病 were treated 於 involved-field radiation 分析 (OS, P 追加 .21; DFS, 其 = .24). 年 64% patients 而 had been 性 with adjuvant 之 therapy survived 發後之 years following ％ as compared 同樣 43% for 於 without additional 性 therapy (P 患者 .08). Similarly, 發後之 patients 	 為 adjuvant systemic 追加 experienced a 治療 DFS of 復 compared with 存活率 for patients 等 systemic therapy 有 ILRR (P 患者 .38) Conclusion 治療 A substantial 可 of postmastectomy 的 with locoregional 很長 sustain an 無病 long DFS 面 OS after 切除 therapy. Therefore, 乳癌 radiotherapy should 單獨 used to 發 optimal locoregional 局部 and to 適當 secondary dissemination 和 patients with ILRR.
原發性 central nervous 經系統 lymphoma is 並不常見 rare form 治療 extranodal non-Hodgkin’s 放射 that is 為主 to the 的 nervous system 期 eye. Whole 經系統 irradiation was 表現 main treatment 研究 1990. However, 治療 studies examined 放射 disorder in 使得 past 6 提升 Novel treatment 為 continue to 主流 studied for 引發 diagnosed primary 神經 nervous system 發症 As overall 功能 improved, the 等 of late 也漸 has become 國際原 apparent. 	 經系統 testing of 組織則 treated with 治療 shows significant 定義及 deficits that 方便 be attributed 交流 whole brain 本篇 The International 回顧 Central Nervous 關原 Lymphoma Collaborative 經系統 (IPCG) has 文獻 guidelines for 最 baseline evaluation. 治療 conclusion, the 仍 treatment for 但多數  central 以大劑 system lymphoma 氨喋呤 undefined. The 的 of intrathecal 放射 remains unclear. 為 brain irradiation 常用 become less 有效 The most 模式 and probably 腔 treatment of 的 diagnosed disease 仍 include high-dose 傳統 chemotherapy plus 以 at the 放射 status. International 的 prospective randomized 已漸 including prospective 應 test will 大型 needed, as 並將 is impossible 功能 draw conclusions 討論 the ﻿nonrandomized 找出 series published 治療 far.
﻿Primary 原發性 nervous system 經系統 is a 並不常見 form of 治療 non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma 放射 is confined 為主 the central 的 system and 期 Whole brain 經系統 was the 表現 treatment before 研究 However, Numerous 治療 examined this 放射 in the 使得 6 years. 提升 treatment regimens 為 to be 主流 for newly 引發 primary central 神經 system lymphoma. 發症 overall survival 功能 the burden 等 late neurotoxicity 也漸 become more 國際原 	 
Neuropsychological 經系統 of patients 組織則 with hemoradiation 治療 significant cognitive 定義及 that can 方便 attributed to 交流 brain irradiation. 本篇 International Primary 回顧 Nervous System 關原 Collaborative Group 經系統 has proposed 文獻 for the 最 evaluation. In 治療 the optimal 仍 for primary 但多數 central nervous 以大劑 lymphoma remains 氨喋呤 The role 的 intrathecal chemotherapy 放射 unclear. Whole 為 irradiation alone 常用 less popular. 有效 most common 模式 probably effective 腔 of newly 的 disease should 仍 high-dose methotrexate-based 傳統 plus radiotherapy 以 the present 放射 International large-scale 的 randomized studies 已漸 prospective neuropsycholgical 應 will be 大型 as it 並將 impossible to 功能 conclusions from 討論 ﻿nonrandomized small 找出 published so 治療
﻿ : To 刀 the accuracy 影像 image-guided system, 定位 arm, and 系統 for Cyberknife 的 and to 為 it for 系統 clinical use. 機械 
Method and 準確 : Cyberknife 的 consisted of 保臨 robotic arm 品質 a 6MV 量 and one 治療 guided system 依據 two-sets of 方法 units. It 是 one of 機械 dedicated equipment 兩組 stereotactic radiosurgery. 影像 accuracy of 的 robotic arm 立體 tested to 手術 the agreement 於 the arm 之準 and the 確認 at various 提供 using the 外線 system provided 機械 the manufacture. 每個 
The accuracy 在 the Target 距離 System (TLS) 與 tested by 吻合 6D skull 系統 mode and 是  fiducial 維頭顱 mode using 模 special phantom. 維顱 for the 追 Cyberknife system, 以假體 applied “End- 影像 method, using 的 phantom and 整體 film, to 包括 its accuracy. 計劃 
Results : 手臂 agreement of 加速器 arm positions 劑量 isocenters at 測試 SAD were 認其準 0.5 mm 機械 is within 不同 tolerance of 所有 manufacture suggested 差 For the 於 results of 導引系 Locating System, 維頭顱 errors (including 模 and rotation) 維顱 less than 蹤 mm for 下 tracking modes. 皆 
The end-to-end 包含 results for 旋 entire Cyberknife 體電腦 are all 評估 than 1 後 	 
Conclusions 皆 From the 結論 of our 可 Tests and 定位 the Cyberknife 更 be used 治療 clinic for 影像 procedures. The 方式 function for ﻿ unit makes 治療 an accurate 的 effective radiation 在 modality for 範圍
﻿Purpose ﻿ To assure 刀 accuracy of 影像 system, robotic 定位 and dosimetry 系統 Cyberknife unit 的 to prepared 為 for the 系統 use. 	 機械 and Materials 準確 Cyberknife is 的 of one 保臨 arm with 品質 6MV Linac 量 one image 治療 system with 依據 of X-ray 方法 It is 是 of the 機械 equipment for 兩組 radiosurgery. The 影像 of the 的 arm was 立體 to verify 手術 agreement between 於 arm positions 之準 the isocenters 確認 various SAD 提供 the Isopost 外線 provided by 機械 manufacture. 	 每個 accuracy of 在 Target Locating 距離 (TLS) was 與 by both 吻合 skull tracking 系統 and 6D 是 fiducial tracking 維頭顱 using a 模 phantom. As 維顱 the whole 追 system, we 以假體 “End- to-End” 影像 using anthropomorphic 的 and Gafchromic 整體 to verify 包括 accuracy. 	 計劃 : The 手臂 of robotic 加速器 positions and 劑量 at various 測試 were within 認其準 mm which 機械 within the 不同 of the 所有 suggested value. 差 the test 於 of Target 導引系 System, the 維頭顱 (including translation 模 rotation) are 維顱 than 0.5 蹤 for both 下 modes. 	 皆 end-to-end test 包含 for the 旋 Cyberknife system 體電腦 all better 評估 1 mm. 後 
Conclusions : 皆 the results 結論 our Acceptance 可 and Commissioning, 定位 Cyberknife could 更 used in 治療 for radiosurgery 影像 The image-guided 方式 for the ﻿ makes it 治療 accurate and 的 radiation treatment 在 for radiosurgery.
目的 : To 頸部 dose homogeneity 的 the neck 嘗試 in head-and-neck 準直 radiotherapy, we 的 a rotating 調控 and compare 線 differences between 改善 and conventional 照野 radiation therapy 的 	 
Materials 均 Methods : 並比 images for 傳統 head-and-neck cancer 的 previously treated 與 SIHB technique 本 our clinic 選擇 used for 癌症 planning study. 的 generated a 以 CR IMRT 的 each case 新 compared the 電腦 between the 計劃 index and 並比 index. The 其 planning technique 參數 used beams 均 equally-spaced gantry 的 but only 方式 the neck 轉準 the shoulder. 九十度 made beams 上 the shoulder 以九個 a slightly 鎖骨及 field border 的 3 to 結則 mm), to 照野 a built-in 緣 Three of 呈 nine beams 狀 the entire 重疊 including the 相接 neck and 局部 lymph nodes. 勻 three beams 情形 required to 美國 and therefore 師學會 total number 的 fields is 儀 The AAPM 誤差 recommended an 在 of field 所以 and jaw 研究 calibration to 鄰處 within 2 的 Hence, for 隔 accelerator operating 公 these guidelines, 重疊 
two abutting 公釐時 can overlap 劑量 gap up 影響 2 mm. 於 mismatches of 研究 mm and 分析 mm because 強度 imperfect jaw/MLC 治療 were simulated. 照野 used film 處 measure junction 不均 	 
Results 結果 The new 與 could be 品質 to successfully 上 IMRT plans 到 head and 的 cancers. Both 參數 IMRT and 均 IMRT had 程度 the same 器官 index and 劑量 
homogeneity index. 上 evaluating the 脊髓 distribution of 唾液腺 organs, we 劑量 all of 平均 were within 均 tolerance ranges. 容許 measurements showed 範圍 dose inhomogeneities 片實際 resulted from 頸部 mm, 2 處 4 mm 治療 area as 在 calibration errors 公 reduced from 公 large as 公釐誤 	 
±22%, 處劑 with the 為 and half-beam 治療 technique to 則發現 than ±6% 緣 ±12% with 公 newly developed 公釐誤 	 
Conclusion 處劑 Compared with 大幅 conventional SIHB 為 the new 治療 provides superior 品質 homogeneity in 傳統 abutment region 且 the supraclavicular 頸接 head-and-neck IMRT 劑量 
fields. With 勻性 modulating lower ﻿ of fields, 為 feathering mechanism 值得 reduces ﻿dose 頭頸部 that result 之 imperfect jaw/MLC calibration.
Purpose 目的 To improve 頸部 homogeneity at 的 neck junction 嘗試 head-and-neck cancer 準直 we employ 的 rotating collimator 調控 compare the 線 between it 改善 conventional intensity-modulated 照野 therapy (IMRT). 的 
Materials and 均 : CT 並比 for 10 傳統 cancer patients 的 treated with 與 technique in 本 clinic were 選擇 for this 癌症 study. We 的 a new 以 IMRT in 的 case and 新 the differences 電腦 the conformity 計劃 and homogeneity 並比 The new 其 technique also 參數 beams with 均 gantry angles 的 only for 方式 neck above 轉準 shoulder. We 九十度 beams above 上 shoulder with 以九個 slightly lower 鎖骨及 border (normally 的 to 5 結則 to have 照野 built-in feathering. 緣 of the 呈 beams treated 狀 entire neck, 重疊 the lower 相接 and supraclavicular 局部 nodes. Only 勻 beams are 情形 to split 美國 therefore the 師學會 number of 的 is 12. 儀 AAPM TG-40 誤差 an accuracy 在 field size 所以 jaw symmetry 研究 to be 鄰處 2 mm. 的 for an 隔 operating within 公 guidelines, 	 重疊 abutting fields 公釐時 overlap or 劑量 up to 影響 mm. Field 於 of ±1 研究 and ±2 分析 because of 強度 jaw/MLC calibration 治療 simulated. We 照野 film to 處 junction inhomogenity. 不均 
Results : 結果 new technique 與 be used 品質 successfully generate 上 plans for 到 and neck 的 Both conventional 參數 and CR 均 had almost 程度 same conformity 器官 and 	 劑量 index. Upon 上 the dose 脊髓 of critical 唾液腺 we found 劑量 of them 平均 within the 均 ranges. Film 容許 showed that 範圍 inhomogeneities that 片實際 from 1 頸部 2 mm, 處 mm junction 治療 as jaw/MLC 在 errors were 公 from as 公 as ±12%, 公釐誤 
±22%, ±41% 處劑 the single-isocenter 為 half-beam (SIHB) 治療 to less 則發現 ±6% 、±8%, 緣 with this 公 developed technique. 公釐誤 
Conclusion : 處劑 with the 大幅 SIHB technique, 為 new technique 治療 superior dose 品質 in the 傳統 region between 且 supraclavicular and 頸接 IMRT 	 劑量 With a 勻性 lower border ﻿ fields, the 為 mechanism substantially 值得 ﻿dose inhomogeneities 頭頸部 result from 之 jaw/MLC calibration.
目的 : Clinically 床上 is important 病患 patients to 放射 the supporting 時 the immobilization 及 radiotherapy. When 病灶 a posterior-anterior 選用 radiation normally 材料 through the 很 couch insert 治療 the linear 使用 and the 前 devices. With 照野時 energy photon 射束 	 
attenuated 經過 the couch 的 and immobilization 床及 the skin 模具 effect will 光子 reduced. 	 穿過 study is 床及 investigate the 而衰 changes in 會 Superficial layer 皮膚 of the 效應 object after 研究 energy photon 在 passes through 高能 treatment couch 穿過 insert and 樹酯 devices. 	 床及 and Methods 後 The gantry 治療 was set 劑量 180°, so 情形 the posterior-anterior 與 beam incidents 測量 the couch 射束 Measurements were 以 for the 的 combinations of 向 couch insert 照野 vacuums with 入射 beam sizes: 治療 × 10 真空 15 × 不同 cm2, 20 方式 20 cm2, 用 25 × 不同 cm2 . 照野 
Results : 量測 thicker the 為 the larger ㎝ in the × layer dose. 及 proportion of ㎝ layer dose 墊 was relative 厚度 with smaller 淺層 size. There 且 significant influence 野面積 the dose 時 the couch 增加 The magnitude 程度 the influence 地 relative larger 治療 	 
smaller 對 size. The 也 layer dose 的 couch insert 尤其 191% of 淺層 one with 野面 of each 小影 at the 大 × 10 ㎝ field size. 劑量 Superficial layer 未有 with couch 床及 was 161% 時同 the one 的 none of × at the 為 × 25 故因 field size.
Conclusion 床及 The uses 模具 the couch 淺層 and immobilization 的 cause the 設定 Superficial layer 於 Special considerations 治療 to be 皮膚 in these 造成 for the 的 radiation related 在 injury. The 床上 should be 設計 into the 考量 design.
Purpose 目的 Clinically it 床上 important for 病患 to have 放射 supporting and 時 immobilization during 及 When using 病灶 posterior-anterior beam, 選用 normally passes 材料 the treatment 很 insert of 治療 linear accelerator 使用 the immobilization 前 With high 照野時 photon beam 射束 
attenuated by 經過 couch insert 的 immobilization devices, 床及 skin sparing 模具 will be 光子 	 
This 穿過 is to 床及 the dosimetric 而衰 in the 會 layer dose 皮膚 the treated 效應 after high 研究 photon beam 在 through the 高能 couch (Perspex) 穿過 and immobilization 樹酯 	 
Materials 床及 Methods : 後 gantry angle 治療 set as 劑量 so that 情形 posterior-anterior photon 與 incidents to 測量 couch insert. 射束 were taken 以 the different 的 of the 向 insert and 照野 with 4 入射 sizes: 10 治療 10 cm2, 真空 × 15 不同 20 × 方式 cm2, and 用 × 25 不同 . 	 照野 : The 量測 the vacuum, 為 larger increase ㎝ the Superficial × dose. The 及 of Superficial ㎝ dose increase 墊 relative larger 厚度 smaller field 淺層 There was 且 influence of 野面積 dose from 時 couch insert. 增加 magnitude of 程度 influence was 地 larger with 治療 
smaller field 對 The Superficial 也 dose with 的 insert was 尤其 of the 淺層 with none 野面 each other 小影 the 10 大 10 cm2 ㎝ size. The 劑量 layer dose 未有 couch insert 床及 161% of 時同 one with 的 of them × the 25 為 25 cm2 故因 size.
Conclusion : 床及 uses of 模具 couch inert 淺層 immobilization devices 的 the increased 設定 layer dose. 於 considerations need 治療 be taken 皮膚 these conditions 造成 the possible 的 related skin 在 The impact 床上 be incorporated 設計 the treatment 考量
直腸 melanoma of 黑色素 rectum is 一極 very rare 快速 aggressive malignancy. 即使 
Long-term survival 大多 rare as 仍 patients die 擴散 disseminated disease 存活 of 	 對 Surgery is 限 mainstay of 或區域 for patients 手術 local-regional disease. 主要 
Most studies 研究 not show 腹部 in survival 切除 patients who 與 abdominoperineal resection 緣 and those 的 underwent wide 存活率 excision, although 差別 was noted 腹部 result in 術 local-regional control 較佳 Some 	 控制 propose to 提出 these patients 切除 conservative surgery 併 adjuvant radiotherapy 治療 an attempt 能 both preserve 器官 sphincter function 提升 improve local-regional 以經 	 
We 切除 a 67-year-old 術 patient with 針對 melanoma of 部位 lower rectum 區域 transanal wide 照射 and postoperative 下段 to the 黑色素 tumor site 六十七 pelvic regional 從 At present, 至今 is well 月 continent without 良好 of recurrence 正常 months after 腫瘤 initial treatment.
﻿Malignant 直腸 of the 黑色素 is a 一極 rare but 快速 malignancy. 	 即使 survival is 大多 as most 仍 die of 擴散 disease regardless 存活 	 
treatment. 對 is the 限 of treatment 或區域 patients with 手術 disease. 	 主要 studies did 研究 show difference 腹部 survival between 切除 who underwent 與 resection (APR) 緣 those who 的 wide local 存活率 although APR 差別 noted to 腹部 in improved 術 control rate. 較佳 	 
investigators 控制 to treat 提出 patients with 切除 surgery and 併 radiotherapy in 治療 attempt to 能 preserve the 器官 function and 提升 local-regional control. 以經 
We managed 切除 67-year-old female 術 with malignant 針對 of the 部位 rectum with 區域 wide excision 照射 postoperative irradiation 下段 the primary 黑色素 site and 六十七 regional lymphatics. 從 present, she 至今 well and 月 without evidence 良好 recurrence 15 正常 after the 腫瘤 treatment.
目的 To evaluate 內膜癌 prognostic factors 手術 treatment outcomes 線 patients of 結果 cancer with 後 of surgery 與 by radiotherapy.
Materials 年 Methods: From 年 1993 to 位診斷 2004, there 的 69 patients 本院 as endometrial 病人 at our 中位 The median 範圍 at diagnosis 歲 55 years 系統 from 34 病人 80 years). 期別 to the ( staging system Ⅰ cancer of ) uterine body, 位 patients (67%) 是 stage Ⅰ, ( (12%) were Ⅳ Ⅱ, 12 ( were stage 病理 and 3 型態 were stage 內膜 Fifty-eight patients ( had endometrioid 宮內膜 and 11 的 (16%) had 型態 carcinomas: 4 當中 leiomyoscarcomas, 3 ( MMMTs (malignant 位是 mullerian tumor), 病人 were papillary 手術 carcinomas, 1 中 clear cell 病人 and 1 接受 mixed mucinous 放射 small cell 結果 All 69 的 underwent surgery. 時 (91%) of 位 69 patients 個 postoperative adjuvant 從 The median 月 duration was 蹤 months (ranged 程 8 to 病人 months). During 存活 follow-up period, ( patients (87%) 位 alive, and ) patients (13%) 復 Three patients 情形 had local ( Nine patients 遠端 had distant 的 The actuarial 是 overall survival 分析 was 85%. 期別 univariate analysis, 整體 was a 說 prognostic factor 重要 overall survival, 後 early stages 病理 Pathological cell 型態 was also 整體 prognostic factor 說 overall survival, 重要 cell type 後 endometrioid carcinoma 是否 Lymph node 結轉移 was another 整體 prognostic factor 說 overall survival, 一個 status without 預 node metastasis 值為 In multivariate 多 pathological cell 當中 continued to 細胞 a significant 於 factor for 來 survival, favoring 舊 type of 重要 carcinoma (p=0.045).
Conclusions: 後 5-year overall 結論 rate of 放射 was achieved 來 our report 內膜癌 patients of 本文 cancer treated 可以 surgery followed 五年 radiotherapy. Stage, 癌症 cell type 組織 lymph node 與 were significant 淋巴 factors affecting 影響 survival based 的 our study. 因子 follow-up of 更長 patients and 追 of more 評 are needed 的 evaluate long-term 與 and treatment outcomes.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 內膜癌 factors and 手術 outcomes in 線 of endometrial 結果 with treatments 後 surgery followed 與 radiotherapy.
Materials and 年 From August 年 to April 位診斷 there were 的 patients diagnosed 本院 endometrial cancer 病人 our hospital. 中位 median age 範圍 diagnosis was 歲 years (ranged 系統 34 to 病人 years). According 期別 the FIGO ( system for Ⅰ of the ) body, 46 位 (67%) were 是 Ⅰ, 8 ( were stage Ⅳ 12 (17%) ( stage Ⅲ, 病理 3 (4%) 型態 stage Ⅳ. 內膜 patients (84%) ( endometrioid carcinomas 宮內膜 11 patients 的 had non-endometrioid 型態 4 were 當中 3 were ( (malignant mixed 位是 tumor), 2 病人 papillary serous 手術 1 was 中 cell carcinoma, 病人 1 was 接受 mucinous and 放射 cell carcinoma. 結果 69 patients 的 surgery. Sixty-three 時 of these 位 patients received 個 adjuvant radiotherapy.
Results: 從 median follow-up 月 was 38 蹤 (ranged from 程 to 129 病人 During the 存活 period, 60 ( (87%) were 位 and 9 ) (13%) died. 復 patients (4%) 情形 local recurrence. ( patients (13%) 遠端 distant metastases. 的 actuarial 5-year 是 survival rate 分析 85%. In 期別 analysis, stage 整體 a significant 說 factor for 重要 survival, favoring 後 stages (p=0.0298). 病理 cell type 型態 also a 整體 factor for 說 survival, favoring 重要 type of 後 carcinoma (p=0.0063). 是否 node metastasis 結轉移 another significant 整體 factor affecting 說 survival, favoring 一個 without lymph 預 metastasis (p=0.0469). 值為 multivariate analysis, 多 cell type 當中 to be 細胞 significant prognostic 於 for overall 來 favoring cell 舊 of endometrioid 重要 (p=0.045).
Conclusions: The 後 overall survival 結論 of 85% 放射 achieved in 來 report of 內膜癌 of endometrial 本文 treated with 可以 followed by 五年 Stage, pathological 癌症 type and 組織 node metastasis 與 significant prognostic 淋巴 affecting overall 影響 based on 的 study. Longer 因子 of these 更長 and accrual 追 more patients 評 needed to 的 long-term survival 與 treatment outcomes.
目的 To study 頭頸部 locoregional tumor 接受 in postoperative 放射 of head-and-neck 各項 in relation 對 the duration 的 the surgery-radiotherapy 與 overall radiation 至 time (OTT), 位 treatment gap.
Methods 性手術 Materials: This 癌症病患 study included 手術 patients with 治療 of head 手術後因 neck, treated 發才 surgery first, 治療 by postoperative 或 between 1996 檢查 2004. The 則不 who had 內 before radiotherapy 整體 only received 治療 were not 時間 The median 為 the total 與 dose, surgery-radiotherapy 有 and the 在 treatment time 沒 61.2 Gy, 有 days, and 中斷 days respectively. 天 interruption during 病人 (except for 時 breaks) was 值 in 27.7% 月 patients. Twenty 存活 six percent 時間 patients had 個 than 5 有 of gap.
Results: ( median duration 復 follow-up was 以單 months. The 治療 recurrence-free survival 時間 was 34 等 Recurrence developed 的 61 patients 較 Increased surgery-radiotherapy 控制率 to more 但是 30 days 分析 significantly related 意義 a decrease 時間 recurrence-free survival 中斷 (p=0.0328). However, 短 duration of 控制率 and treatment 結論 did not 接受 RFS significantly.
Conclusions: 放射 our study, 頭頸部 surgery-radiotherapy interval 治療 more than 時間 days would 天是 an adverse 因子 Although the 本 treatment time 整體 treatment gap 治療 not affect 並沒有 significantly, we 我們 do our 縮 to shorten 前 surgery-radiotherapy interval 時間 avoid the 中斷 gaps.
Purpose: 目的 study the 頭頸部 tumor control 接受 postoperative radiotherapy 放射 head-and-neck cancer 各項 relation to 對 duration of 的 surgery-radiotherapy interval, 與 radiation treatment 至 (OTT), and 位 gap.
Methods and 性手術 This retrospective 癌症病患 included 141 手術 with cancer 治療 head and 手術後因 treated with 發才 first, followed 治療 postoperative irradiation 或 1996 and 檢查 The patients 則不 had recurrence 內 radiotherapy or 整體 received biopsy 治療 not included. 時間 median of 為 total radiation 與 surgery-radiotherapy interval, 有 the overall 在 time were 沒 Gy, 34 有 and 48 中斷 respectively. No 天 during radiotherapy 病人 for weekend 時 was found 值 27.7% of 月 Twenty point 存活 percent of 時間 had more 個 5 days 有 gap.
Results: The ( duration of 復 was 14 以單 The median 治療 survival time 時間 34 months. 等 developed in 的 patients (43.3%). 較 surgery-radiotherapy interval 控制率 more than 但是 days was 分析 related to 意義 decrease in 時間 survival (RFS) 中斷 However, the 短 of OTT 控制率 treatment gaps 結論 not influence 接受 significantly.
Conclusions: In 放射 study, increased 頭頸部 interval to 治療 than 30 時間 would cause 天是 adverse effect. 因子 the overall 本 time and 整體 gap did 治療 affect RFS 並沒有 we should 我們 our best 縮 shorten the 前 interval and 時間 the treatment 中斷
目的 Radical cystectomy 性 been the 術 treatment for 膀胱 transitional cell 的 (TCC) of 方式 bladder. Transurethral 膀胱 of bladder 術合 (TUR-BT) and 放射 (RT) provide 膀胱 alternative option 之外 cystectomy for 的 preservation. The 加上 therapy (TMT) 同時 neoadjuvant and 之 chemotherapy (CHT) 療法 to improve 改善 treatment result. 本篇 study is 評估 evaluate the 於 outcome and 療法 toxicity of 成效 TMT for 治療 preservation.
Materials and 副作用 From 2000 方法 2004, 37 收集 with invasive 位 TCC undergoing 轉型 preservation therapy 接受 reviewed retrospectively. 保留 them, 21 病人 received radical 分析 followed by 病人 alone. The 經 16 patients 腫瘤 had complete 併 or good 治療 response after 病人 TUR-BT and 經 CHT received 腫瘤 RT or 與 chemoradiation. The 治療 protocol was 到 to small 或 field and 之 to whole 進 plus tumor 放射 boost to 同時 total dose 合 64.8Gy with 治療 fraction size 三合一 1.8Gy in 放射 TMT group. 計為 in the 治療 alone group 骨 60Gy to 膀胱 bladder or 未 to whole 化學 plus 20Gy 病人 to whole 每天 with daily 放射 size of 劑量 Gy. Interval 盆腔 was performed 接受 confirm the 治療 of complete 在 for continuation 接受 RT in 以 TMT group.
Results: 持續 median age 完全 61.8 in 繼續 TMT group 治療 76.8 in 三合一 RT alone 之中 Thirty patients 歲 male and 放射 were female. 年齡 the TMT 全體 fourteen patients 共有 complete response 位 radical TUR-BT 三合一 induction CHT. 有 patients (43.7%) 在經 the TMT 腫瘤 had grade 與 or 4 化學 toxicity, and 達 of them 緩解 of treatment 病人 The other 或 patients completed 急性 treatment course 位因 modification of 毒性 In the 另外 alone group, 調 one patient 處方後繼續 had grade 只 acute toxicity. 治療 median follow-up 位 14.6 months 發生 the TMT 急性 and 21 追 in the 間 alone group. 療法 the 14 月 completing TMT, 放射 patients experienced 組為 recurrence and 一年 of 16 在 had distant 組為 In the 放射 alone group, 值 of 21 與 had local 接受 while 7 組 had distant 遠端 The one-year 疾病 control rates 存活率 93.3% in 與 group and 值 in RT 與 group (p=0.11). 在 one-year metastasis-free 反應 disease-free survival, 三合一 overall survival 療法 100% and 之遠端 (p=0.047), 93.3% 與 62.3% (p=0.05), 有 87.5% and 的 (p=0.23), respectively.
Conclusion: 本院 the cost 使用 increased acute 似乎 TMT for 且 preservation provides 病人 better metastasis-free 承受 and favorable 的 survival. Our 追 seems feasible 三合一 well tolerated 療法 most patients. 在 limited follow-up, 有 result of 滿意 remains satisfactory 但 selected patients. 時間 observation is 蹤 to confirm 認 ultimate success 療法 bladder preservation.
Purpose: 目的 cystectomy has 性 the standard 術 for invasive 膀胱 cell carcinoma 的 of urinary 方式 Transurethral resection 膀胱 bladder tumors 術合 and radiotherapy 放射 provide an 膀胱 option to 之外 for organ 的 The trimodality 加上 (TMT) incorporating 同時 and concurrent 之 (CHT) seems 療法 improve the 改善 result. This 本篇 is to 評估 the short-term 於 and treatment-related 療法 of the 成效 for bladder 治療 and Methods: 副作用 2000 to 方法 37 patients 收集 invasive bladder 位 undergoing bladder 轉型 therapy were 接受 retrospectively. Among 保留 21 patients 病人 radical TUR-BT 分析 by RT 病人 The other 經 patients who 腫瘤 complete response 併 good partial 治療 after radical 病人 and neoadjuvant 經 received further 腫瘤 or concurrent 與 The RT 治療 was 45Gy 到 small pelvis 或 and 50.4Gy 之 whole bladder, 進 tumor bed 放射 to a 同時 dose of 合 with daily 治療 size of 三合一 in the 放射 group. Patients 計為 the RT 治療 group received 骨 to whole 膀胱 or 40Gy 未 whole pelvis 化學 20Gy boost 病人 whole bladder 每天 daily fraction 放射 of 2.0 劑量 Interval cystoscopy 盆腔 performed to 接受 the status 治療 complete response 在 continuation of 接受 in the 以 group.
Results: The 持續 age was 完全 in the 繼續 group and 治療 in the 三合一 alone group. 之中 patients were 歲 and seven 放射 female. In 年齡 TMT group, 全體 patients had 共有 response after 位 TUR-BT and 三合一 CHT. Seven 有 (43.7%) in 在經 TMT group 腫瘤 grade 3 與 4 acute 化學 and two 達 them died 緩解 treatment toxicity. 病人 other five 或 completed their 急性 course with 位因 of CHT. 毒性 the RT 另外 group, only 調 patient (4.7%) 處方後繼續 grade 3 只 toxicity. The 治療 follow-up was 位 months in 發生 TMT group 急性 21 months 追 the RT 間 group. In 療法 14 patients 月 TMT, two 放射 experienced local 組為 and none 一年 16 patients 在 distant metastasis. 組為 the RT 放射 group, eight 值 21 patients 與 local recurrence 接受 7 patients 組 distant metastasis. 遠端 one-year locoregional 疾病 rates were 存活率 in TMT 與 and 72.0% 值 RT alone 與 (p=0.11). The 在 metastasis-free survival, 反應 survival, and 三合一 survival were 療法 and 73.3% 之遠端 93.3% and 與 (p=0.05), and 有 and 79.8% 的 respectively.
Conclusion: At 本院 cost of 使用 acute toxicity, 似乎 for bladder 且 provides significant 病人 metastasis-free survival 承受 favorable disease-free 的 Our protocol 追 feasible and 三合一 tolerated in 療法 patients. With 在 follow-up, the 有 of TMT 滿意 satisfactory in 但 patients. Longer 時間 is needed 蹤 confirm the 認 success of 療法 preservation.
目的 This prospective, 研究 study was 探討 to test 性直 efficacy and 手術 of adjuvant 用 chemoradiation therapy ) using uracil-tegafur 及 and leucovorin 放射 in patients 之療效 locally advanced 及 cancer.
Material and 與 From February 自 through November 至 17 patients 月 stage II 接受 III rectal 化學 were enrolled 治療 the study. 用 underwent curative 直腸 followed by 後 CCRT at 患者 Memorial Hospital, 中位 The median 從 was 54 歲 42 to 方式 years. The 為 procedures were 治療 abdominoperineal resection 每天 a radical 劑量 Radiotherapy (RT), 而 in 28 線 33 fractions, 劑量 of 45Gy 共計 whole-pelvis irradiation 至 by a 骨盆 to 14.4Gy 共 boost to 腫瘤 tumor bed. 照射 combination of 治療 UFUR at 放射 to 250 以 and LV 劑量 to 60 一年 was given 或 days a 發為止 during the 位中 course and 位為 for at 位 one year 位 until treatment 位皆屬 whichever came 位 Of the 分級 patients, 7 分化 male and 分化 were female. 線 had undergone 的 and 12 量 The adenocarcinoma ( moderately differentiated 平均 15 poorly 為 in 2. 期間 median radiation 中位數 was 59.4 月份 50.4 to 月 with a 存活率 57.7Gy. None 存活率 the patients 位 during the 發生 course. The 復 survival for 局部 17 patients 發 36 months, 位 the 3-year ) survival was 轉移 The 3-year 三年 survival rate 控制率 44%. Four 本次 developed local 最常 yielding a 的 local control 噁 of 68%. 嘔吐 patients developed 與 metastasis, for 白血球 3-year metastasis-free 減少 of 62%. 級 most-common side 毒性 were diarrhea 級 nausea or 腹瀉 dermatitis, fatigue, 級 hematological toxicity 疲倦 of anemia, 級 and thrombocytopenia. 嘔 grade 4 佔 was observed. 在 patients had 接受 3 diarrhea, 皮膚炎 1 grade 重為 fatigue and 傷害 but these 以上 tolerable. None 只 greater than 沒有 2 skin 的 One patient 減少 grade 3 的 but none 結論 grade 3 性直 or thrombocytopenia.
Conclusions: 手術 CCRT that 用 oral UFUR ) LV provided 放射 survival and 治療 control rates 有效 acceptable toxicity 方便 patients with 少 advanced rectal 治療 A randomized 進行 of this 一步 treatment is 隨機性
Purpose: 目的 prospective, nonrandomized 研究 was conducted 探討 test the 性直 and toxicity 手術 adjuvant concurrent 用 therapy (CCRT) ) uracil-tegafur (UFUR) 及 leucovorin (LV) 放射 patients with 之療效 advanced rectal 及 and Methods: 與 February 2001 自 November 2004, 至 patients with 月 II or 接受 rectal adenocarcinoma 化學 enrolled in 治療 study. All 用 curative resection 直腸 by adjuvant 後 at Mackay 患者 Hospital, Taipei. 中位 median age 從 54 (range, 歲 to 86) 方式 The operative 為 were either 治療 resection or 每天 radical proctectomy. 劑量 (RT), delivered 而 28 to 線 fractions, consisted 劑量 45Gy of 共計 irradiation followed 至 a 5.4 骨盆 14.4Gy local 共 to the 腫瘤 bed. A 照射 of oral 治療 at 200 放射 250 mg/m2/day 以 LV 45 劑量 60 mg/day 一年 given 7 或 a week 發為止 the RT 位中 and then 位為 at least 位 year or 位 treatment failure, 位皆屬 came first.
Results: 位 the 17 分級 7 were 分化 and 10 分化 female. Five 線 undergone APR 的 12 RP. 量 adenocarcinoma was ( differentiated in 平均 poorly differentiated 為 2. The 期間 radiation dose 中位數 59.4 (range, 月份 to 59.4)Gy, 月 a mean 存活率 None of 存活率 patients died 位 the CCRT 發生 The median 復 for all 局部 patients was 發 months, and 位 3-year overall ) was 68%. 轉移 3-year disease-free 三年 rate was 控制率 Four patients 本次 local failure, 最常 a 3-year 的 control rate 噁 68%. Five 嘔吐 developed distant 與 for a 白血球 metastasis-free rate 減少 62%. The 級 side effects 毒性 diarrhea and 級 or vomiting, 腹瀉 fatigue, and 級 toxicity consisting 疲倦 anemia, leucopenia, 級 thrombocytopenia. No 嘔 4 toxicity 佔 observed. Three 在 had grade 接受 diarrhea, and 皮膚炎 grade 3 重為 and vomiting, 傷害 these were 以上 None had 只 than grade 沒有 skin toxicity. 的 patient had 減少 3 anemia, 的 none had 結論 3 leucopenia 性直 thrombocytopenia.
Conclusions: Adjuvant 手術 that includes 用 UFUR and ) provided acceptable 放射 and local 治療 rates with 有效 toxicity in 方便 with locally 少 rectal cancer. 治療 randomized trial 進行 this combined 一步 is warranted.
目的 Toxicity to 組織 tissues remains 反應 major treatment-limiting 是 in concurrent 放射 therapy (CCRT). 主要 study was 在 to evaluate 裡 toxicity of 頭頸部 used along 患者 CCRT to 使用 head and 學 cancer.
Patients and 時 The medical 及其 of 16 與 with head 年 neck cancer 年 from June 位頭 to November 的 with CCRT 化學 amifostine in 治療 department were 的 analyzed. The 治療 tumor was 每日 the nasopharynx 至 6, oropharynx 在 6, and 治療 cavity in 接受 Radiotherapy (RT) 平方公尺 administered to 線 primary tumor 分鐘 regional lymph 平方公尺 at a 快速 of 64.8 每個 72Gy over 的 to 8 及其 Chemotherapy consisted 位 6 weekly 有 of cisplatin 因為 mg/m^2) given 副作用 hour prior 暫停 RT. A 個 3-minute intravenous 將劑 of amifostine, 平方公尺 mg/m^2, was 使用 15 minutes 副作用 each RT 病人 All patients 治療 examined at 的 end of 有 week. Adverse 嚴重 of amifostine 而 recorded.
Results: In 治療 of the 嚥 patients (50%), 口腔 amifostine therapy 同步化 to be 線 or reduced 在 of amifostine-related 均 The dose 有 reduced to 產生 mg/m^2 in 的 patients and 的 completely in 在 3. Amifostine-related 身上 effects resulted 存活率 delay of 整體 by 2 結論 7 days 頭頸部 7 of 治療 16 patients, 由靜脈 RT could 平方公尺 be completed 重 1 patient. 建議 amifostine-related toxicity 劑量 not observed.
Objective: 目的 to normal 組織 remains a 反應 treatment-limiting factor 是 concurrent chemoradiation 放射 (CCRT). This 主要 was conducted 在 evaluate the 裡 of amifostine 頭頸部 along with 患者 to treat 使用 and neck 學 and Methods: 時 medical records 及其 16 patients 與 head and 年 cancer treated 年 June 2001 位頭 November 2003 的 CCRT plus 化學 in our 治療 were retrospectively 的 The primary 治療 was in 每日 nasopharynx in 至 oropharynx in 在 and oral 治療 in 4. 接受 (RT) was 平方公尺 to the 線 tumor and 分鐘 lymph nodes 平方公尺 a dose 快速 64.8 to 每個 over 7 的 8 weeks. 及其 consisted of 位 weekly doses 有 cisplatin (30 因為 given approximately
1 副作用 prior to 暫停 A rapid 個 intravenous infusion 將劑 amifostine, 300 平方公尺 was given 使用 minutes before 副作用 RT fraction. 病人 patients were 治療 at the 的 of each 有 Adverse effects 嚴重 amifostine were 而 In 8 治療 the 16 嚥 (50%), the 口腔 therapy had 同步化 be discontinued 線 reduced because 在 amifostine-related toxicity. 均 dose was 有 to 210 產生 in 5 的 and stopped 的 in another 在 Amifostine-related adverse 身上 resulted in 存活率 of RT 整體 2 to 結論 days in 頭頸部 of the 治療 patients, and 由靜脈 could not 平方公尺 completed in 重 patient. Long-term 建議 toxicity was 劑量 observed.
目的 To determine 水池 RBE of ( BNCT epithermal 照射 beam produced 本 THOR for 特定 reference biological 來 and reference 為 conditions.
Materials and 捕獲 Intestinal crypt ) in mice 超熱 chosen as 的 system. No 與 compound was 研究所 RBE was 生物 relative to 小鼠 gamma rays 的 two irradiation 實驗 corresponding to 並未 gamma and 實驗 absorbed dose 值則 The RBE(subscript 較 (i.e. considering 及 beam ”as 下 is”, with 加馬及 dose components ” its actual 組成 rate) was 輻射 equal to 之 and 1.9 的關 absorbed dose 結果 comprising 75 在 70% of 條件 respectively. Assuming 中子 the RBE 值分別 the gamma 其中 component is 量 to unity 的 deriving the 和 of the 輻射 dose component, 等 non-γ) values 兩種 2.9 and 下 were obtained 非加馬 the data 的 the first 分別 second absorbed 和 mixture respectively. 全世界 the THOR 設施 with those 實驗 from the 所得 system in 可以 other BNCT 在 worldwide, large 及 between the 組合 beam) are 情況 even when 中子 those beam 亦 exhibiting similar 相同 dose mixtures. 束 is, however, “ general trend 輻射劑 the RBE(subscript 佔 to increase 增加 with increasing 增加 dose component 是 The derived 各 non-γ) exhibit 所 large differences, “ average 3.4, 輻射 value is 亦 to the 差異 currently apply 平均值 clinical practice 臨床 determining the 決定 biologically weighted 權重 and Conclusion: 相近 THOR data 結論 well as 世界 of the 設施 facilities exhibit 顯示 certain degree 之 internal consistency 束 that the 皆 beam) increases 非加馬 the non-gamma 量 component. However, 的 RBE differences 而 institutions appear 不同 large to 所得 explained only 差異 the difference 無法 the composition 組成 the beams 所 in dose 劑量 (power of 不同 reactor). It 解釋 likely that 從 the dosimetric 量 and adopting 不 dosimetric protocols 共通 restore some 測量 in the 保輻射 data. As 的 experiments constitue 於 overall check 方法 the irradiation 全面 (including dosimetry), 程序 should be 的 for the 可用 of new 為 or on 建立 occasion of 設施升 substantial upgrade.
Purpose: 目的 determine the 水池 of the ( epithermal neutron 照射 produced at 本 for a 特定 biological system 來 reference irradiation 為 and Methods: 捕獲 crypt regeneration ) mice was 超熱 as biological 的 No boron 與 was administrated. 研究所 was determined 生物 to cobalt-60 小鼠 rays for 的 irradiation conditions 實驗 to different 並未 and ”non-gamma” 實驗 dose mixtures.
Results: 值則 RBE(subscript beam) 較 considering the 及 ”as it 下 with all 加馬及 components and ” actual dose 組成 was found 輻射 to 1.5 之 1.9 for 的關 dose mixtures 結果 75 and 在 of gamma 條件 Assuming that 中子 RBE of 值分別 gamma dose 其中 is equal 量 unity and 的 the RBE 和 the non-gamma 輻射 component, RBE(subscript 等 values of 兩種 and 4.0 下 obtained from 非加馬 data of 的 first and 分別 absorbed dose 和 respectively. Comparing 全世界 THOR data 設施 those obtained 實驗 the same 所得 in 6 可以 BNCT facilities 在 large differences 及 the RBE(subscript 組合 are observed, 情況 when comparing 中子 beam configurations 亦 similar absorbed 相同 mixtures. There 束 however, a “ trend for 輻射劑 RBE(subscript beam) 佔 increase slightly 增加 increasing non-gamma 增加 component contribution. 是 derived RBE(subscript 各 exhibit also 所 differences, but “ 3.4, which 輻射 is close 亦 the one 差異 apply in 平均值 practice for 臨床 the ”total 決定 weighted dose”.
Discussion 權重 Conclusion: The 相近 data as 結論 as those 世界 the other 設施 exhibit a 顯示 degree of 之 consistency in 束 the RBE(subscript 皆 increases with 非加馬 non-gamma dose 量 However, the 的 differences between 而 appear too 不同 to be 所得 only by 差異 difference in 無法 composition of 組成 beams and 所 dose rate 劑量 of the 不同 It is 解釋 that lessening 從 dosimetric uncertainties 量 adopting common 不 protocols would 共通 some homogeneity 測量 the radiobiological 保輻射 As such 的 constitue an 於 check of 方法 irradiation procedure 全面 dosimetry), they 程序 be undertaken 的 the commissioning 可用 new installations 為 on the 建立 of any 設施升 upgrade.
泌尿道 is rare 移形 see skin 癌轉 originated from 皮膚 transitional cell 病例 (TCC) of 多 tract. The 膀胱 of skin 細胞 from TCC 移至 urinary bladder 之 falls in 為 range from 百分之 to 2%, 二至 that of 腎盂 TCC of 細胞 pelvis metastasis 移至 skin remains 之 Most of 發生率 skin metastases 大部分 at a 轉移 period from 原發癌 months to 後 years after 半年 diagnosis of 年 primary tumor. 發生 treatment modalities 轉移癌 on the 治療 of cutaneous 包括 include surgery, 手術 therapy and 治療 with M-VAC 治療 vinblastin, adriamycin 治療 cisplatin) or 及 We have 或 a dismal 移形 on a 癌轉 patient with 皮膚 metastasis from 預後極 of urinary tract.
It 泌尿道 rare to 移形 skin metastasis 癌轉 from the 皮膚 cell carcinoma 病例 of urinary 多 The incidence 膀胱 skin metastasis 細胞 TCC of 移至 bladder generally 之 in the 為 from 0.2 百分之 2%, however, 二至 of the 腎盂 of renal 細胞 metastasis to 移至 remains unknown. 之 of the 發生率 metastases occur 大部分 a time 轉移 from six 原發癌 to several 後 after the 半年 of the 年 tumor. The 發生 modalities adapted 轉移癌 the treatment 治療 cutaneous metastasis 包括 surgery, radiation 手術 and chemotherapy 治療 M-VAC (methrotrexate, 治療 adriamycin and 治療 or gemcitabine. 及 have seen 或 dismal prognosis 移形 a male 癌轉 with skin 皮膚 from TCC 預後極 urinary tract.
目的 To report 強度 use of 放射 radiotherapy (IMRT) 治療 with chemotherapy 合 the treatment 化學 a case 於 a malignant 細胞瘤 and Methods: 治療 case of 評估 malignant mesothelioma 與 the right 一位 cavity is 男性 here. This 肋膜 male patient 有 an initial 皮 of persistent 之 with blood-tinged 為 for 3 帶有 and associated 已有 were progressive 月 of breath 體重 body weight 此 Because the 之 chest x-ray 發現 right pleural 肋膜 the initial 初判 was lung 肺癌 A chest 月 scan was 安排 and revealed 電腦 right infrahilar 瞄 with atelectasis ) the right 右下 lung, and 腫塊 small nodular 肺 in the 不全 upper anterior 影像 segment. The 腫脹 diagnosis of 全之右 CT scan 支氣管 lung cancer 右側 the right 水 bronchus with 肺積 and right 引流 effusion. A 做 chest PA 胸部 pleural fluid 肺 revealed thickening 於 the right 月 and parietal 施予 A thoracotomy 指出 a pleural 上皮 was performed 之 weeks after 皮 CT scan. 呈 pathology revealed 而 epithelial-type well-differentiated 染色 mesothelioma; CK 為 EMA stains 安排 positive, while 進行 stain was 線 The TNM 電腦斷 was T2N1M0. 取得 was then 厚度 for this 之 A CT 線 of the 用 chest cavity 影像 5-mm slices 計畫 performed prior 為 radiotherapy for 治療 simulation with 右側 GE lightspeed 肺 Radiotherapy treatment 總劑 was done 格雷 the Eclipse 年 system, version 日至 Intensitymodulated radiotherapy 日 was given 共 the entire 放射 visceral and 天前 pleurae for 接受 total dose 的 64.6Gy in 經靜脈 fractions over 結果 61-day period 後 Febuary 12 在 April 22, 追 The patient 續 received a 幾 of chemotherapy 月 100 mg 後 iv given 月 days before 都 start of 有 The patient, 追 was followed-up 之 the outpatient 中顯 every month, 肺積 suffered no 右側 recurrence by 肋膜 months after 變小 and a 年 CT scan 發現 slight pleural 年 with progressive 年 of the 日 pleural cavity. 姑息 patient suffered 全腦 brain metastasis 線 October 2003. 總劑 radiotherapy for 為 entire brain 病患 given from 年 18 to 日 20, 2003 惡性間 a total 細胞瘤 of 42.5Gy. 無法 patient unexpectedly 性開 on November 術 2003.
Conclusions: IMRT ) an alternative 強度 option for 治療 malignant mesothelioma 為 is otherwise 選擇 for a 發生 extrapleural pneumonectomy 量 No severe 放射 pneumonitis was 而 even with 肺炎 high dose 須要 IMRT. More 多 trials are 試驗 to determine 評估 benefit of 的 new treatment 之
Purpose: 目的 report the 強度 of intensity-modulated 放射 (IMRT) combined 治療 chemotherapy in 合 treatment of 化學 case of 於 malignant mesothelioma.
Materials 細胞瘤 Methods: A 治療 of a 評估 mesothelioma of 與 right pleural 一位 is reported 男性 This 65-year-old 肋膜 patient had 有 initial complaint 皮 persistent cough 之 blood-tinged sputum 為 3 months, 帶有 associated symptoms 已有 progressive shortness 月 breath and 體重 weight loss. 此 the patient's 之 x-ray revealed 發現 pleural effusion, 肋膜 initial impression 初判 lung cancer. 肺癌 chest CT 月 was performed 安排 revealed a 電腦 infrahilar mass 瞄 atelectasis of ) right lower 右下 and a 腫塊 nodular density 肺 the right 不全 anterior lung 影像 The final 腫脹 of the 全之右 scan was 支氣管 cancer of 右側 right lower 水 with atelectasis 肺積 right pleural 引流 A repeat 做 PA after 胸部 fluid drainage 肺 thickening of 於 right visceral 月 parietal pleurae. 施予 thoracotomy with 指出 pleural biopsy 上皮 performed 2 之 after the 皮 scan. The 呈 revealed an 而 well-differentiated malignant 染色 CK and 為 stains were 安排 while CEA 進行 was negative. 線 TNM staging 電腦斷 T2N1M0. Radiotherapy 取得 then arranged 厚度 this patient. 之 CT scan 線 the entire 用 cavity in 影像 slices was 計畫 prior to 為 for treatment 治療 with a 右側 lightspeed scanner. 肺 treatment planning 總劑 done with 格雷 Eclipse RTP 年 version 6.5. 日至 radiotherapy (IMRT) 日 given to 共 entire right 放射 and parietal 天前 for a 接受 dose of 的 in 38 經靜脈 over a 結果 period from 後 12 to 在 22, 2003. 追 patient also 續 a course 幾 chemotherapy with 月 mg cisplatin 後 given 4 月 before the 都 of radiotherapy.
Results: 有 patient, who 追 followed-up in 之 outpatient clinic 中顯 month, had 肺積 no local 右側 by 6 肋膜 after radiotherapy, 變小 a follow-up 年 scan showed 發現 pleural effusion 年 progressive regression 年 the right 日 cavity. The 姑息 suffered a 全腦 metastasis in 線 2003. Palliative 總劑 for the 為 brain was 病患 from October 年 to November 日 2003 for 惡性間 total dose 細胞瘤 42.5Gy. The 無法 unexpectedly expired 性開 November 30, 術 IMRT is ) alternative treatment 強度 for a 治療 mesothelioma which 為 otherwise unsuitable 選擇 a radical 發生 pneumonectomy (EPP). 量 severe radiation-induced 放射 was noted 而 with the 肺炎 dose of 須要 More clinical 多 are needed 試驗 determine the 評估 of this 的 treatment modality.
: To evaluate : treatment results . analyze the : factors of : for skin . and Methods: ( January 1994 ( April 2004, : patients with ) skin cancer . a complete . of radiotherapy . Changhua Christian ( There were ( males and ) females, between ( and 94 ( old (median: ) years). The ( of patients ) stage I ) IV were ( 21, 11, ) 0, respectively. ) subtypes of . were Squamous . carcinoma (SCC) . 27 patients ( and Basal ) carcinoma (BCC) ( 21 patients ( The median ) size was ( cm. Tumors ( was predominantly ) nose (29.2%), ( (25%), facial ( extremities (8.3%), ) (6.3%), eyelids ( and others ) The median ) dose and ( treatment days ) 60 Gy ) 48 days.
Results: ( patients were ) up until ) 2004. The . duration of . was 26 : (range: 5.8 : 118.8 months). . 5-year overall ( and disease-free ( rate were : and 37.8%, ) Treatment failure ) loco-regional relapse . patients), and . metastasis (3 ( In univariate ( of variables ) log rank ( AJCC stage, ( type and ) metastasis were . significant prognostic . (P＜0.05) for ( survival.
Conclusion: Radiotherapy ＜ effective in ) of skin ) Our data . that the : survival, disease-free : cosmetic appearance . patient tolerance . good and feasible.
Purpose: : evaluate the : results and . the prognostic : of radiotherapy : skin malignancies.
Materials . Methods: From ( 1994 to ( 2004, 48 : with malignant ) cancer received . complete course . radiotherapy at . Christian Hospital. ( were 22 ( and 26 ) between 38 ( 94 years ( (median: 78 ) The numbers ( patients in ) I to ) were 16, ( 11, and ) respectively. The ) of histology . Squamous cell . (SCC) in . patients (56.3%), ( Basal cell ) (BCC) in ( patients (43.8%). ( median tumor ) was 3 ( Tumors location ( predominantly at ) (29.2%), scalp ( facial (18.8%), ( (8.3%), ear ) eyelids (4.2%) ( others (8.3%). ) median radiation ) and total ( days were ) Gy and ) days.
Results: The ( were followed ) until October ) The median . of follow-up . 26 months : 5.8 to : months). The . overall survival ( disease-free survival ( were 56.2% : 37.8%, respectively. ) failure included ) relapse (8 . and distant . (3 patients). ( univariate analysis ( variables with ) rank test, ( stage, histology ( and nodal ) were the . prognostic factors . for overall ( Radiotherapy is ＜ in treatment ) skin cancers. ) data indicated . the overall : disease-free survival, : appearance and . tolerance were . and feasible.
目的 To analyze 研究 treatment result 直腸癌 colorectal cancer 後 adjuvant chemotherapy 輔助性 radiotherapy and 與 evaluate the 預 factors.
Materials and 材料 This is 方法 retrospective study 至 eighty patients 回溯 underwent surgery 收集 colorectal cancer 結腸 received post- 接受 adjuvant chemo-radiotherapy 治療 January 1996 排除 December 2003. 骨 work-up and 之 were documented 及 physical examination, 腺癌 studies (CT, 治療 sonography), colonoscopy 未 CEA. The 總共 TNM staging 例 was based 年齡 the AJCC 歲 of staging 平均 cancer 6th 歲 2002. The 蹤 radiation was 自 with linear 中值 and the 病人 dosage ranged 蹤 45 Gy 作理學 61.2 Gy. 線檢查 adjuvant chemotherapy 大腸鏡 given with 與 based regimen. 疾病 STATA(superscript TM) 第六版 database and 四百 were used 或 statistic analysis.
Result: 伏特 these 72 加速器 the mean 放射 was 56.4 至 (median 60), 給予 3- and 治療 year overall 採前 rates were 對 % and 箱 respectively; local 野 rates were 無 and 83%, 骨 the disease 化學 survival rates 以 47% and 組合 respectively. There 例 18 patients 其 age 50 五年 54 patients 為 than age 值 The survival 為 for the 其 was worse 發率 the older 為 our study, 床上 without statistic 侵襲 (p=0.2618). The 滲透 specimen with 旁 vessel or 影響 permeation, inadequate 生存期 and adjacent 多 invasion resulted 預後差 a poor 治療 The pretreatment 值大 level more 也 20 ng/ml 後 a significant ≤ factor for 年 after stage 者 adjusted but 差別 significant for 盆腔 control or 內 control.
Conclusion: For 直腸癌 cancer receiving 加上 and post 結果 chemotherapy and 外科 the pathologic 標本 of lymphovascular 侵襲 blood vessel 淋巴管 and unclear 旁 are of 為 significance. The 治療 CEA level 參考 than 20 病人 was also 似非 risk factor.
Purpose: 目的 analyze the 研究 result of 直腸癌 cancer post-operative 後 chemotherapy and 輔助性 and to 與 the prognostic 預 and Methods: 材料 is a 方法 study of 至 patients who 回溯 surgery for 收集 cancer and 結腸 post- operative 接受 chemo-radiotherapy between 治療 1996 and 排除 2003. Tumor 骨 and follow-up 之 documented by 及 examination, image 腺癌 (CT, MRI, 治療 colonoscopy and 未 The applied 總共 staging system 例 based on 年齡 AJCC manual 歲 staging of 平均 6th edition, 歲 The adjuvant 蹤 was delivered 自 linear accelerator 中值 the radiation 病人 ranged from 蹤 Gy to 作理學 Gy. The 線檢查 chemotherapy was 大腸鏡 with 5-FU 與 regimen. The 疾病 TM) computer 第六版 and SPSS 四百 used for 或 analysis.
Result: Of 伏特 72 patients, 加速器 mean age 放射 56.4 years 至 60), the 給予 and 5- 治療 overall survival 採前 were 68 對 and 53%, 箱 local control 野 were 85% 無 83%, respectively; 骨 disease free 化學 rates were 以 and 41%, 組合 There were 例 patients under 其 50 and 五年 patients older 為 age 50. 值 survival rate 為 the younger 其 worse than 發率 older in 為 study, but 床上 statistic significance 侵襲 The resection 滲透 with blood 旁 or lymphovascular 影響 inadequate margin 生存期 adjacent organs 多 resulted in 預後差 poor prognosis. 治療 pretreatment CEA 值大 more than 也 ng/ml was 後 significant risk ≤ for survival 年 stage was 者 but not 差別 for local 盆腔 or disease 內 For colorectal 直腸癌 receiving surgery 加上 post -operative 結果 and radiotherapy, 外科 pathologic finding 標本 lymphovascular permeation, 侵襲 vessel invasion 淋巴管 unclear margin 旁 of prognostic 為 The pretreatment 治療 level more 參考 20 ng/ml 病人 also a 似非 factor.
目的 In response 議定 the AAPM 之 protocol, the 核能 of Nuclear ( Research (INER) 研 a pancake 圓 ionization chamber 型 the primary 作為 for the 吸收 dose to 原級 in 60Co. 標準 INER cooperated 亦 13 domestic 國內 in measurements 合作 the absorbed 依據 to water 書 6 MV 與 10 MV 光子 photon beams 吸收 based on 並 AAPM TG-21 在 TG-51 protocols 議定 analyze the 之 differences under 量 two protocols. 吸收 quality assurance 之 for institutions 以作 from the 醫院 to TG-51 轉換 was suggested 議定 on the 之品 results of 與 two dosimetry 完成 and Methods: 型 completed the 游離腔 and measurement 物理 the physical 與 and correction 因子 of the 評估 graphite ionization 以 and then 游離腔 a bilateral 傳 with ARPANSA/Australia 與 the standards 國家 absorbed dose 進行 water in 吸收 by using 標準 NE 2571 比 chambers as 同時 items. Also, 也 used a 照射 irradiator in 進行 chamber calibrations 游離腔 terms of 氣克馬 air kerma 水 absorbed dose 校正 water. As 醫用 the measurement 水 of the 劑量 dose to 測比 for the 條件 MV and 參考 MV high-energy 書 beams, they 或 based on 照野及 AAPM TG-51 深度 at 100 與 SSD (or 吸收 10 cm×10 標準 irradiation field 比 10 cm 在 depth.
Results: The 小 of the 組合 bilateral comparison 不 the standards ( the absorbed 顯示 to water 測結果 60Co was 良好 0.3%, which 針對 less than 家比 combined standard 單位 (k=1). It 使用 that both 種規格游 had good 而言 in measurement 吸收 For the 與 types of 係 ionization chambers 比值 by the 為 dosmetic hospitals, 所有 ratios of 之 absorbed dose 係 water calibration 比值 against the 平均 kerma calibration 差異 in 60Co 維持 between 1.094 以內 1.105, showing 對 results within 參加 limits (envelop 對 ±0.6%), At 醫院 same time, 與 all the 光子 participants, the 下 differences of 及 absorbed dose 書 water for 測之 MV and 水 MV high-energy 劑 beams based 異均 the TG-21 結論 TG-51 dosimetry 加速器 were less 游離腔 1.5%.
Conclusions: The 廠牌 and structures 並不會 medical accelerators 使用 ionization chambers 測量 not cause 吸收 in dose 造成 either it 差異 TG-51 or 量測 protocol that 劑 been used. 異超過 an institution 就 TG-5 or 重新 ratios measurably 在 (＞1.5%) than 議定 values presented 所 this paper, 的 should recheck 計算 correctness of 與 parameters and 測數 data used 之 both protocols.
Purpose: 目的 response to 議定 AAPM TG-51 之 the Institute 核能 Nuclear Energy ( (INER) fabricated 研 pancake graphite 圓 chamber as 型 primary standard 作為 the absorbed 吸收 to water 原級 60Co. Meanwhile, 標準 cooperated with 亦 domestic hospitals 國內 measurements of 合作 absorbed dose 依據 water of 書 MV and 與 MV high-energy 光子 beams respectively 吸收 on the 並 TG-21 and 在 protocols to 議定 the dosimetry 之 under the 量 protocols. A 吸收 assurance guide 之 institutions switching 以作 the TG-21 醫院 TG-51 protocol 轉換 suggested based 議定 the comparison 之品 of these 與 dosimetry protocols.
Material 完成 Methods: INER 型 the assessment 游離腔 measurement of 物理 physical parameters 與 correction factors 因子 the pancake 評估 ionization chamber 以 then made 游離腔 bilateral comparison 傳 ARPANSA/Australia for 與 standards of 國家 dose to 進行 in 60Co 吸收 using three 標準 2571 ionization 比 as transfer 同時 Also, INER 也 a 60Co 照射 in performing 進行 calibrations in 游離腔 of the 氣克馬 kerma and 水 dose to 校正 As to 醫用 measurement conditions 水 the absorbed 劑量 to water 測比 the 6 條件 and 10 參考 high-energy photon 書 they were 或 on the 照野及 TG-51 protocol 深度 100 cm 與 (or SAD), 吸收 cm×10 cm 標準 field and 比 cm calibratoin 在 The difference 小 the INER-ARPANSA 組合 comparison of 不 standards of ( absorbed dose 顯示 water in 測結果 was within 良好 which was 針對 than the 家比 standard uncertainty 單位 It showed 使用 both laboratories 種規格游 good agreement 而言 measurement results. 吸收 the 5 與 of cavity 係 chambers used 比值 the 13 為 hospitals, the 所有 of the 之 dose to 係 calibration coefficient 比值 the air 平均 calibration coefficient 差異 60Co were 維持 1.094 and 以內 showing similar 對 within tight 參加 (envelop of 對 At the 醫院 time, for 與 the 13 光子 the measurement 下 of the 及 dose to 書 for 6 測之 and 10 水 high-energy photon 劑 based on 異均 TG-21 and 結論 dosimetry protocols 加速器 less than 游離腔 The manufacturers 廠牌 structures of 並不會 accelerators and 使用 chambers will 測量 cause differences 吸收 dose measurement 造成 it was 差異 or TG-21 量測 that had 劑 used. If 異超過 institution determines 就 or TG-21 重新 measurably different 在 than the 議定 presented in 所 paper, it 的 recheck the 計算 of calculation 與 and measurement 測數 used in 之 protocols.
目的 This study 的 to develop 要 advance precision 精準 (3-D) image 影像 algorithm to 方法 the blurred 強化 clearly and 模糊 introduce the 引用 onto the 成果 modulated radiotherapy 調控 for tumor 先期 This will 處理 what physicians 完成 demand that 所 doses escalation 確保 of IMRT.
Materials 放射 Methods: No 提升 the Wavelet 之 is well 材料 to be 由 of the 技術 gradient segmentation 與 due to 的 multi-scale and 方法 capabilities. We 成為 the standard 最好 Wavelet Transform 切割 into two 延伸 By applying 小波 2-D DWT 二維空間 one may 標準 a new 轉換 detection method. 一個 for practical 邊界 we replace 因為 traditional 2-D 的 functions with 我們 2-D discrete 散 wavelet transform 來 DPWT). Finally, 的 using Daubechies 來產生 transform function 邊界 form the 最 masks for 其小波 operation in 遮罩 processing, it 二維 us to 的 edges at 捲 scales for 一來 Linear interpolation 依 edges linking 的 thinning algorithm 來 then used 切割 form 3-D 補法則 A proposed 與 flowchart designed 法則 this precision 使用 treatment targeting 三維 introduced in 組像 paper. Different 一張 images were 說明 to test 提出 validity of 治療 method. We 的 compared the 描繪 with a 並且 region growing 的 approach to 來驗證 that our 提 renderings not 妥 achieved the 結果 we sought 區域 also has 法作 interesting applications 以呈現 shall be 提 useful to 不僅 medical practice.
Results: 理想 CT scan 並發現 and one 對 data of 有趣 medical images 的 used to 在 the validity 的 our proposed 當中 One CT 組電腦 dataset from 描攝 human chest 一組 test first 第一 extract the 胸腔 lung for 我們 extraction. Its 分離 segmentation result 特徵 shown in 在 Figs. 3, 五中 5 and 切割 region growing 將區域 was also 結果 for comparison. 作為 second dataset 第二 a CT 一個 of a 腦 patient with 的 pituitary tumor 的 her brain. 掃 size and 呈 of the 大小 its orientation 腦中 the brain, 與 the position 頭部 to the 我們 are all 清楚 clearly seen. 七中 6, 7 我們 demonstrated the 成果 of our 腫瘤 capable of 位置 an outstanding 而 of the 是 In the 我們 experiment of 使用 MRI data, 強調 demonstrate how 在 were used ) our 3-D 三維 to enhance 顯示 important parts. 顏色 reconstruction of 與頭 brain in 的 partial skull 在 shown in 當中 10 (d) 到 different colors 準確度 emphasize their 加入 positions. On 可以 examples of 角度 images we 不同 not only 強調 precision had 三維 achieved, we 結果 also able 醫師 create rotation 且 the objects 從 transparent effects 治療 obtain its 需靠 images of 想像 angles. They 三維 allow physicians 由此 conduct surgery 切割 treatment much 可 accurately and 圖像 Many 3-D 分辨 physicians usually 定義 compose by 關 now all 明白 under our 在 processing. Features 上 now clearly 相當 locations pinned 結論 exactly, and 提出 orientations are 目標 well understood. 演算法 are all 地協助 for radiation 治療 The 3-D 調控 segmentation we 導引 allows physicians 三維小波 improve the 不僅 treatments or 我們 much more 準確性 and effectively. 在 precision 3- 處理 wavelet segmentation 相當 shall be 因此 useful in 所提 for medical 將會 They will 影像 an important 治療 in image-guided 與 (IGRT) and 醫療 other medical 扮演 in the 角色
Purpose: 目的 study aimed 的 develop an 要 precision three-dimensional 精準 image segmentation 影像 to enhance 方法 blurred edges 強化 and then 模糊 the result 引用 the intensity 成果 radiotherapy (IMRT) 調控 tumor targeting. 先期 will achieve 處理 physicians usually 完成 that tumor 所 escalation characteristics 確保 IMRT.
Materials and 放射 No doubt 提升 Wavelet method 之 well known 材料 be one 由 the best 技術 segmentation methods 與 to its 的 and multi-resolution 方法 We extend 成為 standard Discrete 最好 Transform (DWT) 切割 two dimensions. 延伸 applying this 小波 DWT algorithm 二維空間 may develop 標準 new edge 轉換 method. But 一個 practical purposes, 邊界 replace the 因為 2-D wavelet 的 with a 我們 discrete periodic 散 transform (2-D 來 Finally, by 的 Daubechies wavelet 來產生 function to 邊界 the wavelet 最 for convolution 其小波 in image 遮罩 it allows 二維 to detect 的 at different 捲 for segmentation. 一來 interpolation and 依 linking and 的 algorithm were 來 used to 切割 3-D renderings. 補法則 proposed algorithm 與 designed for 法則 precision 3-D 使用 targeting was 三維 in this 組像 Different medical 一張 were used 說明 test the 提出 of our 治療 We then 的 the results 描繪 a traditional 並且 growing segmentation 的 to show 來驗證 our 3-D 提 not only 妥 the precision 結果 sought but 區域 has many 法作 applications that 以呈現 be most 提 to the 不僅 practice.
Results: Two 理想 scan data 並發現 one MRI 對 of different 有趣 images were 的 to verify 在 validity of 的 proposed method. 當中 CT scan 組電腦 from a 描攝 chest was 一組 first to 第一 the right 胸腔 for feature 我們 Its wavelet 分離 result was 特徵 in the 在 3, 4, 五中 and the 切割 growing method 將區域 also shown 結果 comparison. The 作為 dataset was 第二 CT scan 一個 a female 腦 with a 的 tumor in 的 brain. The 掃 and shape 呈 the tumor, 大小 orientation with 腦中 brain, and 與 position relative 頭部 the head 我們 all now 清楚 seen. Figures 七中 7 clearly 我們 the results 成果 our segmentation 腫瘤 of providing 位置 outstanding positioning 而 the tumor. 是 the third 我們 of an 使用 data, we 強調 how colors 在 used in ) 3-D renderings 三維 enhance the 顯示 parts. 3-D 顏色 of the 與頭 in a 的 skull is 在 in Fig. 當中 (d) with 到 colors to 準確度 their relative 加入 On all 可以 of medical 角度 we created, 不同 only desired 強調 had been 三維 we are 結果 able to 醫師 rotation of 且 objects with 從 effects to 治療 its 3-D 需靠 of different 想像 They will 三維 physicians to 由此 surgery or 切割 much more 可 and effectively. 圖像 3-D images 分辨 usually only 定義 by imaginations, 關 all visible 明白 our 3-D 在 Features are 上 clearly identified, 相當 pinned down 結論 and relative 提出 are now 目標 understood. These 演算法 all vital 地協助 radiation therapies.
Conclusion: 治療 3-D targeting 調控 we proposed 導引 physicians to 三維小波 the traditional 不僅 or IMRT 我們 more accurately 準確性 effectively. Our 在 3- D 處理 segmentation rendering 相當 be very 因此 in practice 所提 medical images. 將會 will play 影像 important role 治療 image-guided radiotherapy 與 and many 醫療 medical applications 扮演 the future.
前言 The does 計劃 of all 以 treatment planning 影像 system are 計算及 on Computerized 基礎 image, but 斷層 room couch 治療 is not 治療 in CT 床 therefore, the 入射 does is 實際 different to 劑量 does distribution 計劃會 by treatment 因此 computer system. 輻射 when radiation 的 incident posterially 評估 the treatment 與 the phenomenal 是 radiation attenuation 加速器 by treatment 碳 should be 床 and Method: 衰減 study was 離腔 measure the 公分 caused by 帽 fiber Exact 床 in Varian － Linear accelerator ) machine, ion 分別 was used 之 take the × does converted × reading with 照射 cm build 將旋 cap at ) 100 cm ° setup. Field 作為 was set 每個 be 5 次 5 cm^2, 為 by 10 後 by 15 為 with different 求出 angle from 的 to 360° 旋 every 5° 的 6 MV 結果 10 MV 射束 beam.
Results: According 未通 the experimental 及其 results, the 與 chamber reading 讀值 those gantry 差異 which central 治療 did not 不 the couch 與 the supporter ° to 0° 差異 angle was 而 0.5%, while 及其 attenuation result 與 within 1% 讀值 the radiation 差異 through couch 分別 exclude supporter, ° there are ° position whose 結論 results are 數據 10% there 共有 at gantry 大 97.5°, 102.5°, 分別 237.5°, 257.5°, 支撐 IEC scale.
Conclusion: 上下 geometry of 緣 beam and 射束 were related 支撐 distance from 受到 isocenter to 主要 surface in 床 vertical direction, 中心 size, and 治療 of the 治療 to isocenter 治療 the horizontal 距離 We can 上述 a gantry 數值 from the 三角 avoid the 係 to hit 推導出 supporter. Therefore, 治療 set of 關 was developed 藉由 check if 可 radiation beam 不會 the couch 架 or not.
Purpose: 前言 does calculation 計劃 all commercialized 以 planning computer 影像 are based 計算及 Computerized Tomography 基礎 but treatment 斷層 couch information 治療 not included 治療 CT images, 床 the delivered 入射 is literally 實際 to the 劑量 distribution designed 計劃會 treatment planning 因此 system. Especially 輻射 radiation beam 的 posterially under 評估 treatment couch, 與 phenomenal of 是 attenuation caused 加速器 treatment couch 碳 be studied.
Material 床 Method: This 衰減 was to 離腔 the attenuation 公分 by carbon 帽 Exact couch 床 Varian 21EX － accelerator treatment ) ion chamber 分別 used to 之 the radiation × converted to × with 6 照射 build up 將旋 at SAD ) cm isocentrally ° Field size 作為 set to 每個 5 by 次 cm^2, 10 為 10 cm^2,15 後 15 cm^2 為 different gantry 求出 from 0° 的 360° in 旋 5° for 的 MV and 結果 MV photon 射束 According to 未通 experimental measurement 及其 the electrometer 與 reading of 讀值 gantry angle 差異 central axis 治療 not penetrate 不 couch and 與 supporter compared ° 0° gantry 差異 was within 而 while the 及其 result was 與 1% when 讀值 radiation penetrate 差異 couch and 分別 supporter, and ° are six ° whose attenuation 結論 are exceed 數據 there are 共有 gantry angle 大 102.5°, 122.5°, 分別 257.5°, 262.5° 支撐 scale.
Conclusion: The 上下 of radiation 緣 and supporter 射束 related to 支撐 from treatment 受到 to couch 主要 in the 床 direction, field 中心 and shift 治療 the couch 治療 isocenter in 治療 horizontal direction. 距離 can get 上述 gantry angle 數值 the relation 三角 the radiation 係 hit the 推導出 Therefore, a 治療 of equation 關 developed to 藉由 if the 可 beam penetrates 不會 couch supporter 架 not.
目的 Intensity modulated 調控 therapy (IMRT) ( nonuniform beam ) to provide 強度 radiation dosage 可以 the tumor 把 more accurately. 的 the problem 線劑 intra-fraction organ 腫瘤 can cause 上 to the 中 beam intensities. 於 study aims 運動 develop a 之劑 adaptive technique 分布 toggle the 扭曲 of respiratory 失真 in radiation 係 and Methods: 呼吸 video cue 呼吸 shows a 放射 moving pattern 法 shown to 方法 patient to 以視覺 adjust his 週期 motion. Once 來 respiratory motion 呼吸 regular, we 呼吸 predict his 固定 phase during 可 treatment. The 治療 of the 呼吸 due to 相位 respiratory motion 的 be obtained 由 the fluoroscopy 預先 The trajectory 修改 then used 直儀 modify the ) of MLC 控制 so that 修正 radiation field ( synchronized with 移動 motion. Once 以改 beam moves 方向 the respiratory 呼吸 the field 運動 can be 可將 on the 在 volume and 之上 the distortion 運動 dose distribution 造成 to the 的 motion.
Results and 結果 A phantom 我們 built to 模擬 the respiratory 運動 EDR2 films 做 employed for 分布 measurement of 結果 distribution. Preliminary 改變 show that 模式 of MLC 減少 be used 運動 reduce the 的 due to 利用 Visual cue 來 be used 病人 improve the 可達 of respiration. 規律化 technique can 效果 applied to 可以 cases. The 在 of this 它 Adaptive IMRT 其他 to eliminate 修正 inaccuracy of 好 TM field 是 caused from 不會 movement without 不過 cost of 病人 efficiency. It 合作 patient's cooperation 運動 regular respiratory 的
Purpose: 目的 modulated radiation 調控 (IMRT) utilizes ( beam profile ) provide desired 強度 dosage to 可以 tumor volume 把 accurately. However, 的 problem of 線劑 organ motion 腫瘤 cause distortion 上 the desired 中 intensities. This 於 aims to 運動 a respiration 之劑 technique to 分布 the problem 扭曲 respiratory motion 失真 radiation therapy.
Materials 係 Methods: A 呼吸 cue that 呼吸 a cyclic 放射 pattern is 法 to the 方法 to help 以視覺 his respiratory 週期 Once the 來 motion becomes 呼吸 we can 呼吸 his respiratory 固定 during the 可 The trajectory 治療 the organ 呼吸 to the 相位 motion can 的 obtained from 由 fluoroscopy study. 預先 trajectory is 修改 used to 直儀 the velocities ) MLC leaves 控制 that the 修正 field is ( with organ 移動 Once the 以改 moves with 方向 respiratory motion, 呼吸 field size 運動 be fixed 可將 the tumor 在 and reduce 之上 distortion of 運動 distribution due 造成 the organ 的 and Conclusions: 結果 phantom was 我們 to simulate 模擬 respiratory motion. 運動 films are 做 for the 分布 of dose 結果 Preliminary results 改變 that modification 模式 MLC can 減少 used to 運動 the distortion 的 to respiration. 利用 cue can 來 used to 病人 the regularization 可達 respiration. This 規律化 can be 效果 to clinical 可以 The advantage 在 this Respiration 它 IMRT is 其他 eliminate the 修正 of the 好 field delivery 是 from respiration 不會 without the 不過 of treatment 病人 It requires 合作 cooperation for 運動 respiratory motion.
目的 To compare 模擬 conventional 2-dimensional ( simulation technique 電腦 CT- based 三維 planning method, ) verify the 線 of 2-D 的 for breast 認傳統 irradiation.
Materials and 在 From November 照射 December1998, ten 材料 patients with 自 breast cancer 年 enrolled for 在 study. After 相切 with alpfa-cradle, 的 underwent a 收入 simulation-method to 篇 the parameters 內 2-D treatment 發泡 Patient also 固定 a chest 傳統 scan and 的 images were 操作程序 for subsequent 技術 treatment plan. 之 two treatment 電腦 methods were 以擷 compared with 至 dose-volume histogram 治療 of the 影像 targets (PTV 計劃 tissue, lung 劑量 heart).
Results: The 與 covering ratio 點 vs. 3-D) 角度 these two 等 is 0.95 影像 0.02. For 計劃 normal tissue, 所得 technique has 體積 chest wall 肺部 tissue included 結果 50% isodose 計算 but there 覆蓋 no significant 正常 (mean volume 的 ml±205 ml 有 2-D vs. 的 ml±197 ml 含括 3-D, t 技術 p=0.146). For 差別 ipsilateral lung 分別 both methods 同側 equivalent irradiated 而言 lung volume 肺部 for 2-D 百分比 7.6%±4.8% for 另外 For left-sided 病患 cancer, the 體積 irradiated heart 有 are 5.4 結論 ml (2-D) 資料 5.8 ml±3.9 無論 (3-D).
Conclusions: Our 組織 shows that 其 planning methods 無 equivalent irradiated 有 histograms. For 的 where CT 的 simulator is 執行 available, conventional 技術來 planning method 是 an acceptable 選擇
Purpose: 目的 compare the 模擬 2-dimensional (2-D) ( technique with 電腦 based 3-D 三維 method, and ) the feasibility 線 2-D method 的 breast tangential 認傳統 and Methods: 在 November to 照射 ten successive 材料 with early-staged 自 cancer were 年 for this 在 After immobilization 相切 alpfa-cradle, patient 的 a conventional 收入 to get 篇 parameters for 內 treatment plan. 發泡 also had 固定 chest CT 傳統 and these 的 were stored 操作程序 subsequent 3-D 技術 plan. These 之 treatment planning 電腦 were retrospectively 以擷 with their 至 histogram (DVH) 治療 the irradiated 影像 (PTV normal 計劃 lung and 劑量 The PTV 與 ratio (2-D 點 3-D) of 角度 two techniques 等 0.95 ± 影像 For the 計劃 tissue, two-dimensional 所得 has more 體積 wall soft 肺部 included within 結果 isodose curve, 計算 there is 覆蓋 significant difference 正常 volume 703 的 ml for 有 vs. 539 的 ml for 含括 t test 技術 For the 差別 lung tissue, 分別 methods have 同側 irradiated percentage 而言 volume (7.5%±3.0% 肺部 2-D vs. 百分比 for 3-D). 另外 left-sided breast 病患 the average 體積 heart volumes 有 5.4 ml±4.2 結論 (2-D) versus 資料 ml±3.9 ml 無論 Our analysis 組織 that both 其 methods have 無 irradiated dose-volume 有 For circumstances 的 CT scan 的 is not 執行 conventional 2-D 技術來 method is 是 acceptable alternative.
脊索 are rare 是 neoplasms. Most 的 are found 腫瘤 skull base, 脊索 and cervical 發生 We present 頸椎及 rare case 我們 chordoma with 一少見 spine origin 的 bone metastasis 瘤 operation and 中 In this 放射 no local 照射 was found 沒有 two years 再 tumor removal 轉移 adjuvant radiotherapy, 右 metastases to 左 scapula and 脊索 femur shaft 之 found afterward. 是 the treatment 很大 chordomas remains 我們 challenge. We 有關 the literatures 瘤 the clinical 表現 pathophysiology, treatment 生理 and prognosis 及預 chordomas, and 並 the newest 治療 of radiotherapy, 進展 proton beam 質子 (RT) and 粒子 charged particles 如碳 (carbon ions) 脊索 treating chordomas.
Chordomas 脊索 rare malignant 是 Most chordomas 的 found at 腫瘤 base, sacrum 脊索 cervical spine. 發生 present a 頸椎及 case of 我們 with lumbar 一少見 origin and 的 metastasis after 瘤 and radiotherapy. 中 this case, 放射 local recurrence 照射 found in 沒有 years after 再 removal and 轉移 radiotherapy, but 右 to right 左 and left 脊索 shaft were 之 afterward. Besides, 是 treatment of 很大 remains a 我們 We review 有關 literatures of 瘤 clinical feature, 表現 treatment modalities 生理 prognosis of 及預 and also 並 newest advances 治療 radiotherapy, including 進展 beam radiotherapy 質子 and heavy 粒子 particles RT 如碳 ions) for 脊索 chordomas.
目的 To report 使用 preliminary treatment 腦部動 of AVMs 的 by Linac-based 材料 Radiosurgery (X-knife).
Materials 從 Methods: From 四年 to 2004, 七個 were 117 患者 treated by 接受 for their 治療 lesions in 蹤 hospital. The 個 follow-up time 六至 42 months 月 6-107 months). 二十六位 included 26 畸形 AVMs. There 別分 7 female 及 19 male. 男性 mean age 的 time of 為 was 29 範圍 (range, 8-71 依 For Spetzler-Martin 各別 distribution, there 病人 score 1 五位 score 2(n=5), 兩分 3(n=4) and 為 4(n=8), respectively. 病人 target volume 腦部動 7.9 c.c.. 平均 peripheral or 體積 dose was 九西西 Gy.
Results: No 的 had died 十三 the study 沒有 Twenty-four patients 收案 at least 二十四位 MRI/MRA follow-up 刀後有 8 had 核磁共振 angiography. The 接受 rate of 血管 was 62.5% 粗治 The crude 為 of combined 五 and partial 部動靜脈 was 79.2% 傳統 Median time 顯現 complete disappearance 之中 the nidus 六十三 MRI/MRA was 範圍 months (range, 個 Median time 的 complete obliteration 百分之六十 by conventional 刀 was 63 出血 (range, 33-72). 點七 rate before 於 after radiosurgery 永久性 recorded in 狀 and 7.7%, 這 Three patients 皆 had brain 治療 with permanent 腦部壞 defects and 危險 were treated 治療 the early 體積 in this 值 Significant risk 刀 for brain 孔徑 showed target 三公 more than 等 (P=0.002) and 本院 cone size 治療 than 3.0 的 (P=0.04).
Conclusion: The 與 of AVM 結果 by Linac-based 較 in our 本院 were comparable 數目 other reported 更 However, larger 數及 size with 追 longer follow-up 以便 needed for 而 more conclusive comment.
Introduction: 目的 report our 使用 treatment result 腦部動 AVMs treated 的 Linac-based Stereotactic 材料 (X-knife).
Materials and 從 From 1996 四年 2004, there 七個 117 patients 患者 by X-knife 接受 their brain 治療 in this 蹤 The median 個 time was 六至 months (range: 月 months). These 二十六位 26 cerebral 畸形 There were 別分 female and 及 male. The 男性 age at 的 of SRS 為 29 years 範圍 8-71 years). 依 Spetzler-Martin score 各別 there were 病人 1 (n=9), 五位 2(n=5), score 兩分 and score 為 respectively. Mean 病人 volume was 腦部動 c.c.. Mean 平均 or minimal 體積 was 13 九西西 No patient 的 died during 十三 study interval. 沒有 patients had 收案 least one 二十四位 follow-up and 刀後有 had catheter 核磁共振 The crude 接受 of cure 血管 62.5% (5/8). 粗治 crude rate 為 combined total 五 partial obliteration 部動靜脈 79.2% (19/24). 傳統 time to 顯現 disappearance of 之中 nidus on 六十三 was 28 範圍 (range, 1-82). 個 time to 的 obliteration verified 百分之六十 conventional angiography 刀 63 months 出血 33-72). Hemorrhage 點七 before and 於 radiosurgery were 永久性 in 61.5% 狀 7.7%, respectively. 這 patients (11.5%) 皆 brain necrosis 治療 permanent neurological 腦部壞 and all 危險 treated in 治療 early stage 體積 this study. 值 risk factors 刀 brain necrosis 孔徑 target volume 三公 than 7c.c. 等 and maximum 本院 size more 治療 3.0 cm 的 The results 與 AVM treated 結果 Linac-based SRS 較 our institute 本院 comparable with 數目 reported data. 更 larger sample 數及 with a 追 follow-up is 以便 for a 而 conclusive comment.
目的 To evaluate 前 treatment results 合 preoperative radiotherapy 術 by surgery 初期 the prognostic 之長 in patients 結果 stage IB 因子 IIB cervical 方法 and Methods: 至 July 1986 位 December 1988, 患者 patients with 位為 stage IB Ⅱ patients), IIA 前 patients) and 併 (3 patients) 根除 carcinoma were 術 and treated 中位 the Tri-Service 於 Hospital. The 腫瘤 age of 數為 patients was 組織 years (range 有鱗狀 The median 患者 size was 患者 cm (range 手術 The histological 治療 were squamous 體外 carcinoma (22 數為 adenocarcinoma (2 治療 and small 點 carcinoma (2 兩週 Preoperative radiotherapy 外 to whole 盆腔 was 3600-4500 區域 (median 3700 格雷 This was 結束 by 4 接受 of intracavitary 根除 providing 3200 術 to point 輸 A boost 結果 of 360-1260 型 (median 540 宮 was given 位 the parametrial 術 All patients 達 extrafascial hysterectomy 完全 bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy 有 to 6 於 after completion 出現 radiation therapy.
Results: 位 (84.6%) patients 手術 no residual 併 after hysterectomy, 存活率 two patients 分別 had parametrial 多 after operation. 顯示 were observed ( 6 (23.1%) 宮頸旁 all occurred 腫瘤 postoperative period. 及 overall and 小 survival was ) and 84.3%, 整體 Cox proportional 因素 models demonstrated 於 prognostic factors 患者 adjuvant chemotherapy 巨大 parametrial involvement 放射 operation (p=0.007) 併 age below 性子 years old 術 The results 根除 preoperative radiotherapy 切除 surgery showed 放射 comparable as 之 hysterectomy or 於 alone, especially 後 bulky tumor. 出現 parametrial involvement 之 operation remains 差 prognosis.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 前 results of 合 radiotherapy followed 術 surgery and 初期 prognostic factors 之長 patients with 結果 IB to 因子 cervical carcinoma.
Materials 方法 Methods: Between 至 1986 and 位 1988, twenty-six 患者 with FIGO 位為 IB (13 Ⅱ IIA (10 前 and IIB 併 patients) cervical 根除 were evaluated 術 treated at 中位 Tri-Service General 於 The median 腫瘤 of the 數為 was 49 組織 (range 35-65). 有鱗狀 median tumor 患者 was 5 患者 (range 2-7). 手術 histological types 治療 squamous cell 體外 (22 patients), 數為 (2 patients) 治療 small cell 點 (2 patients). 兩週 radiotherapy dose 外 whole pelvis 盆腔 3600-4500 cGy 區域 3700 cGy). 格雷 was followed 結束 4 fractions 接受 intracavitary brachytherapy 根除 3200 cGy 術 point A. 輸 boost dose 結果 360-1260 cGy 型 540 cGy) 宮 given to 位 parametrial area. 術 patients underwent 達 hysterectomy and 完全 salpingo-oophorectomy 4 有 6 weeks 於 completion of 出現 therapy.
Results: Twenty-two 位 patients had 手術 residual tumor 併 hysterectomy, but 存活率 patients (7.7%) 分別 parametrial involvement 多 operation. Complications 顯示 observed in ( (23.1%) patients, 宮頸旁 occurred in 腫瘤 period. Five-year 及 and disease-free 小 was 79.5% ) 84.3%, respectively. 整體 proportional hazard 因素 demonstrated poor 於 factors were 患者 chemotherapy (p=0.005), 巨大 involvement after 放射 (p=0.007) and 併 below 40 性子 old (p=0.017).
Conclusions: 術 results of 根除 radiotherapy and 切除 showed as 放射 as radical 之 or radiotherapy 於 especially for 後 tumor. Residual 出現 involvement after 之 remains poor 差
目的 Adjuvant radiotherapy 保留 a part 輔助性 the routine 已 of patients 早期 early breast 標準 However, a 然而 of patients 存活 left breast 有些 has been 左側 to be 病人 significant risk 有 cardiac mortality 的 longer relapse-free 副作用 This planning 左側 was designed 研究 assess the 三種 of target 放射 and cardiac 並與 by three 空間 radiotherapy (IMRT) 治療 compared to 較 tangential radiotherapy.
Materials 不同 Methods: Treatment 技術 study was 範圍 retrospectively on 涵蓋及 selected left-sided 效應 cancer patients 材料 treated by 方法 tangential radiotherapy 搜集 the prescribed 乳癌 of 50 之前 in 25 空間 All patients 治療 CT scan 量 their breast 次數 surgery. For 所有 patient, plans 經 generated and 手術 using dose 電腦 histograms for 攝影 target volume 每位 and organs 四種 risk (OAR). 計劃 planning was 評估 using a 體積 IMRT system ) Version 7.1), 器官 the beam 的 was delivered － a step 圖 shoot window 使用 sequence and 治療 beams. Four 是 radiation techniques 是 analyzed: (1) 射線 tangential plan 方式 (2) 2-field 治療 IMRT plan 如下 (3) 2-field ( IMRT plan ) and (4) ) IMRT plan ( Doses to ) PTV and ) OAR were 不同 using a 差異性 Student's t-test.
Results: 根據 homogeneity was 四種 for the 皆 techniques. For 達 patients, the 體積 part of 均 PTV receiving 當計算 dose between 計劃 and 107% 治療 the prescribed 之 was 96.1%, ( 96.0% and ) for the 時 2T, 2O 分別 4I plans, 而 The mean 計算 of the 比率 receiving more 於 95/80% of 劑量 prescribed dose 平均值 3.4/7.4% for 和 2.5/5.8% for 肺部 1.7/4.5% for 大 and 1.2/2.9% 平均值 4I techniques, 是 the mean 計劃 of lung 心臟 more than 高劑 Gy was 卻 17.5%, 23.9% 增加 19.3% for 乳房 four plans, 此外 When compared 使用 3D plans, 計劃 41 plans 肺部 reduced the 的 dose irradiation 體積 of heart; 劑量 the irradiated 於 to the 乳癌 breast were 後 The use 的 IMRT techniques 須評 not increase 較 V20 Gy 劑量 lung or 的 mean left 而 doses.
Conclusion: Left 放射 cancer patients ( adjuvant irradiation 另 which the 本篇 receiving higher 顯示 should be 到 for alternation 照野 IMRT plan. 的 cardiac sparing 體積 is achievable 均 the use 並 4-field IMRT 的 without compromising 效應 coverage.
Purpose: 目的 radiotherapy is 保留 part of 輔助性 routine care 已 patients with 早期 breast cancer. 標準 a subset 然而 patients with 存活 breast cancer 有些 been shown 左側 be at 病人 risk of 有 mortality after 的 relapse-free survival. 副作用 planning study 左側 designed to 研究 the efficacy 三種 target coverage 放射 cardiac sparing 並與 three intensity-modulated 空間 (IMRT) techniques 治療 to three-dimensional 較 radiotherapy.
Materials and 不同 Treatment planning 技術 was performed 範圍 on 10 涵蓋及 left-sided breast 效應 patients previously 材料 by three-dimensional 方法 radiotherapy with 搜集 prescribed dose 乳癌 50 Gy 之前 25 fractions. 空間 patients underwent 治療 scan following 量 breast conserving 次數 For each 所有 plans were 經 and compared 手術 dose volume 電腦 for planning 攝影 volume (PTV) 每位 organs at 四種 (OAR). Treatment 計劃 was performed 評估 a commercial 體積 system (Eclipse ) 7.1), and 器官 beam fluency 的 delivered using － step and 圖 window leaf 使用 and 6-MV 治療 Four different 是 techniques were 是 (1) 3-dimensional 射線 plan (3D), 方式 2-field tangential 治療 plan (2T), 如下 2-field optimized ( plan (2O), ) (4) 4-field ) plan (4I). ( to the ) and each ) were compared 不同 a paired 差異性 t-test.
Results: PTV 根據 was similar 四種 the four 皆 For all 達 the average 體積 of the 均 receiving a 當計算 between 95 計劃 107% of 治療 prescribed dose 之 96.1%, 97.4%, ( and 97.6% ) the 3D, 時 2O and 分別 plans, respectively. 而 mean proportion 計算 the heart 比率 more than 於 of the 劑量 dose was 平均值 for 3D, 和 for 2T, 肺部 for 2O 大 1.2/2.9% for 平均值 techniques, while 是 mean proportion 計劃 lung receiving 心臟 than 20 高劑 was 19.6%, 卻 23.9% and 增加 for the 乳房 plans, respectively. 此外 compared to 使用 plans, the 計劃 plans significantly 肺部 the high 的 irradiation volume 體積 heart; however, 劑量 irradiated doses 於 the contralateral 乳癌 were increased. 後 use of 的 techniques did 須評 increase either 較 Gy of 劑量 or the 的 left lung 而 Left breast 放射 patients undergoing ( irradiation in 另 the heart 本篇 higher dose 顯示 be considered 到 alternation to 照野 plan. Better 的 sparing effect 體積 achievable with 均 use of 並 IMRT technique 的 compromising target 效應
引言 Splenic irradiation 指出 been applied 放射 many years 於 a treatment 血液 various hematologic 的 Its excellent 效果 minimal side 副作用 and low-cost 於 it as 法 reasonable treatment 低 for palliation. 緩 reviewed our 腫大 of splenic 有 and discussed 價值 efficacy.
Materials and 本院 Thirteen cases 放射 splenic irradiation 經驗並 our department 討論 January 2000 材料 August 2004, 自 twelve cases 至 eligible for 共有 Diseases included 於 myelogenous leukemia 脾臟 liver cirrhosis 治療 anaplastic anemia 慢性 acute lymphocytic 白血病 (1), Hodgkin's 肝硬化 (1) and 良性 myelofibrosis (1). 急性 courses of 白血病 were delivered. 氏 radiation treatment 位自 consisted of 纖維化 opposed fields 總共 Co60 and 療程 or 15 治療 photons targeting 或 the spleen. 之 cumulative doses 以前 from 500 對 to 2400 每天 with fraction 總劑 ranging from 到 to 160 位 Good response 慢性 observed in 病患 patients (3 纖維化 of CML, 及 case of 良好 myelofibrosis) and 有 courses of 位 Partial response 骨髓 observed in 病患 patients (2 性 were liver 不 the other 氏 cases were 位 ALL, anaplatic 程有 and Hodgkin's 療效 and 9 病患 of radiotherapy. 治療 patients were 其診斷 responsive to 肝硬化 treatment, who 不 suffering from 結論 cirrhosis and 治療 anemia, respectively.
Discussion: 因 irradiation can 及 good palliate 纖維化 for splenomegaly 的 from idiopathic 的 and hematological 我們 especial CML. 中 non-malignant diseases, 慢性 as liver 的 and anaplastic 良好效果 the symptom 非 provided by 造成 irradiation was 腫大 as good 放射 for that 則較 the malignant 進 However, it 研究 further investigation.
Introduction: 引言 irradiation had 指出 applied for 放射 years as 於 treatment for 血液 hematologic diseases. 的 excellent effects, 效果 side effects 副作用 low-cost make 於 as a 法 treatment policy 低 palliation. We 緩 our experience 腫大 splenic irradiation 有 discussed its 價值 and Methods: 本院 cases received 放射 irradiation at 經驗並 department from 討論 2000 to 材料 2004, and 自 cases were 至 for analysis. 共有 included chronic 於 leukemia (4), 脾臟 cirrhosis (3), 治療 anemia (2), 慢性 lymphocytic leukemia 白血病 Hodgkin's lymphoma 肝硬化 and idiopathic 良性 (1). Eighteen 急性 of radiotherapy 白血病 delivered. The 氏 treatment techniques 位自 of two 纖維化 fields of 總共 and 6 療程 15 MV 治療 targeting to 或 spleen. The 之 doses ranged 以前 500 cGy 對 2400 cGy 每天 fraction size 總劑 from 50 到 160 cGy.
Results: 位 response was 慢性 in four 病患 (3 cases 纖維化 CML, 1 及 of idiopathic 良好 and 7 有 of radiotherapy. 位 response was 骨髓 in six 病患 (2 cases 性 liver cirrhosis, 不 other 4 氏 were CML, 位 anaplatic anemia 程有 Hodgkin's lymphoma) 療效 9 courses 病患 radiotherapy. Two 治療 were not 其診斷 to the 肝硬化 who were 不 from liver 結論 and anaplastic 治療 respectively.
Discussion: Splenic 因 can achieve 及 palliate effects 纖維化 splenomegaly resulting 的 idiopathic myelofibrosis 的 hematological malignancies, 我們 CML. In 中 diseases, such 慢性 liver cirrhosis 的 anaplastic anemia, 良好效果 symptom relief 非 by splenic 造成 was not 腫大 good as 放射 that of 則較 malignant disease. 進 it needs 研究 investigation.
目的 The conventional 所 films and 治療 portal images 被 widely used 於 the verification 治療 patients' position 定位 the reproducibility 相關 the multi-leaf 定 and block, 之 block or 性 block. The 空間 of verification 易 is often 環保 by the 也 of storing 許困擾 retrieving. In 數位化 the importance 未來 using digital 趨勢 cannot be 上述 in the 研究 radiotherapy. We 放射 to compare 於 portal images 效果 from computed 與 (CR) system 治療 conventional portal 品質 and the 否 from electronic 在 imaging devices 能表現 & Methods: 及 quality of 的 verification images 對 based on 研究 contrast of 楔型 thickness or 人型 We took 以 portal films 模式 digital images 底片 a step 影像 and an 電腦 RANDO Phantom 系統 a 21 影像 Varian linear 結果 Those images 楔型 then compared 表現 visual inspection 攝影 quantitative analysis 最低 Based on 即可 step wedge 現出 CR system 層次 obtain the 假體 gray-scale of 電腦 with least 系統 In each 部位 site (i.e. 範圍 & Neck, 介質 & Pelvis), 對 quality of 較 CR images 底片 judged to 討論 superior to 攝影 portal films.
Conclusion: 於 operation for 技術 CR system 有 similar to 的 tradition verification 即使 Since they 傳統 digital images, 難以 ca be 部位 processed and 側位 anatomic structure 調 be enhanced 好 different ways, 對 in the 醫師 fields of 放射 It provides 清楚 better quality 解剖 image to 評估 the accuracy 給予 the treatment 實際 It seems 的 the CR 電腦 ca provide 系統 better solution 解決 the radiation 驗證 of cancer.
Purpose: 目的 conventional verification 所 and electronic 治療 images are 被 used in 於 verification of 治療 position and 定位 reproducibility of 相關 multi-leaf collimator 定 block, custom 之 or cerroben 性 The use 空間 verification film 易 often accompanied 環保 the inconvenience 也 storing and 許困擾 In addition, 數位化 importance of 未來 digital images 趨勢 be overemphasized 上述 the modem 研究 We intended 放射 compare digital 於 images obtained 效果 computed radiography 與 system with 治療 portal films 品質 the images 否 electronic portal 在 devices (EPID).
Materials 能表現 Methods: The 及 of the 的 images was 對 on the 研究 of different 楔型 or density. 人型 took conventional 以 films and 模式 images of 底片 step wedge 影像 an anthropomorphic 電腦 Phantom under 系統 21 EX 影像 linear accelerator. 結果 images were 楔型 compared by 表現 inspection and 攝影 analysis method.
Results: 最低 on the 即可 wedge study, 現出 system could 層次 the full 假體 of images 電腦 least MU. 系統 each treatment 部位 (i.e. Head 範圍 Neck, Chest 介質 Pelvis), the 對 of the 較 images was 底片 to be 討論 to conventional 攝影 films.
Conclusion: The 於 for the 技術 system is 有 to the 的 verification film. 即使 they are 傳統 images, they 難以 be post 部位 and the 側位 structure can 調 enhanced in 好 ways, especially 對 the lateral 醫師 of pelvis. 放射 provides a 清楚 quality of 解剖 to verify 評估 accuracy of 給予 treatment position. 實際 seems that 的 CR system 電腦 provide a 系統 solution for 解決 radiation treatment 驗證 cancer.
目的 The aim 主要 this study 六年 to classify, 每週 and analyze 所 errors identified 缺失 weekly chart 統計 during the 檢討 6 years.
Materials 原因 Methods: According 以 the guidelines 率 by the 醫療 Group-40 report, 與 and recommendation 美國 clinical quality 師學會 protocol, a 委員會 chart review 號報告 was initiated 對 dosimetrists and 品質 therapists for 的 patient receiving 於 therapy Patients 治療 their charts 中 and treated 與 January 1999 放射 December 2004 歷實施 routinely reviewed 的 every Thursday 研究 their treatment 月 Errors, once 年 were documented, 六年 categorized as 每週 recording, no 病歷 execution, summation 發現 others errors. 予以 abs analyze 其 errors with 為 containing an 錯誤 of the 治療 as well 執行 a plan 量 avoid errors 其他 this type 分析 the future.
Results: 提出 total of 以期 charts were 人 by 304 的 checking execution 在 the past 執行 years. Of 動作 936 errors 歷數 identified, accounting 次 a incidence 發生 1.72% (936/54418). 為 these, 0.56%(307/54418), 屬於劑 0.2%(110/54418), 0.08%(46/54418), 錯誤 0.03%(16/54418) errors ) due to 項寫 recording, no ( execution, summation 師未 others respectively.
Conclusion: ( weekly chart 差 program can 總劑 that all ( are consistent 其他 treatment plan ( the daily 每週 record to 制度 treatment execution. 可 substantial proportion 治療 treatment errors 與 be effectively 正確 with aid 藉由 this program 探討 thus weekly 的 review program 錯誤 an integrated 加以 of quality 修正 in a 放射 radiation oncology 品質
Purpose: 目的 aim of 主要 study was 六年 classify, calculate 每週 analyze the 所 identified by 缺失 chart review 統計 the past 檢討 years.
Materials and 原因 According to 以 guidelines recommended 率 the Task 醫療 report, AAPM, 與 recommendation by 美國 quality assurance 師學會 a weekly 委員會 review program 號報告 initiated by 對 and radiation 品質 for each 的 receiving radiation 於 Patients and 治療 charts seen 中 treated between 與 1999 and 放射 2004 were 歷實施 reviewed once 的 Thursday during 研究 treatment course. 月 once identified, 年 documented, and 六年 as calculation, 每週 no signature, 病歷 summation or 發現 errors. We 予以 analyze the 其 with documentation 為 an explanation 錯誤 the error 治療 well as 執行 plan to 量 errors of 其他 type in 分析 future.
Results: A 提出 of 54418 以期 were reviewed 人 304 chart 的 execution during 在 past 6 執行 Of these, 動作 errors were 歷數 accounting for 次 incidence of 發生 (936/54418). Of 為 0.56%(307/54418), 0.54%(292/54418), 屬於劑 0.08%(46/54418), 0.30%(165/54418), 錯誤 errors were ) to calculation, 項寫 no signature, ( summation and 師未 respectively.
Conclusion: A ( chart review 差 can verify 總劑 all parameters ( consistent from 其他 plan to ( daily treatment 每週 to the 制度 execution. A 可 proportion of 治療 errors ca 與 effectively detected 正確 aid of 藉由 program and 探討 weekly chart 的 program is 錯誤 integrated part 加以 quality assurance 修正 a modem 放射 oncology department.
對 therapeutic approaches 神經 intracranial germ 之 tumors (GCTs) 一共 from craniospinal 全腦 (CSI) to 局部 irradiation with 到化學 without chemotherapy. 使用 were several 歧見 reports in 有 of the 建議將 of radiosurgery 應 the management 神經 intracranial GCTs. 的 this report, 而 cases of 四名 germinomas treated 診斷 Gamma Knife ( (GKRS) were 病例 The first 手術 a 25 第一位 old gentleman 病患 presumed pineal 刀 had spinal 治療 at 6 月 after 15 脊髓 of GKRS. 之 salvage CSI, 脊髓 cranial nerve 追 injury developed. 穩定 second patient, 第四 14 years 功能 boy with 遺症 ganglion germinoma 男性 elevated serum 位 received a 核 Gy upfront 刀 boost but 接受 the scheduled 安排 irradiation. In-field 放射 recurrence developed 伽 7 months 個 the GKRS. 照野內 salvage periventricular 之後經 the patient 治療 from mild 疾病 deficit with 左側 left limb 的 The third 第三位 a 30 病患 old lady 位 presumed pineal 經 had a 刀 response to 大小 trial of 因此 Gy GKRS. 第二次 was given 治療 second course 多 9.5 Gy 復 The fourth 況 an 18 歲 old gentleman 其 presumably pineal 松果 had tumor 傌 at 3 至今 after 15 仍 of GKRS. 上述 on the 綜合 of these 單獨 cases, radiosurgery 手術並 is not 中樞 as the 細胞瘤 treatment for intracranial GCTs.
The 對 approaches to 神經 germ cell 之 (GCTs) vary 一共 craniospinal irradiation 全腦 to focal 局部 with or 到化學 chemotherapy. There 使用 several cases 歧見 in favor 有 the application 建議將 radiosurgery in 應 management of 神經 GCTs. In 的 report, four 而 of presumed 四名 treated with 診斷 Knife radiosurgery ( were presented. 病例 first patient, 手術 25 years 第一位 gentleman with 病患 pineal germinoma, 刀 spinal seeding 治療 6 months 月 15 Gy 脊髓 GKRS. After 之 CSI, 4th 脊髓 nerve radiation 追 developed. The 穩定 patient, a 第四 years old 功能 with basal 遺症 germinoma and 男性 serum β-HCG, 位 a 10 核 upfront GKRS 刀 but declined 接受 scheduled periventricular 安排 In-field local 放射 developed at 伽 months after 個 GKRS. After 照野內 periventricular irradiation, 之後經 patient suffered 治療 mild neurological 疾病 with poor 左側 limb coordination. 的 third patient, 第三位 30 years 病患 lady with 位 pineal germinoma, 經 a poor 刀 to therapeutic 大小 of 10 因此 GKRS. She 第二次 given a 治療 course of 多 Gy GKRS. 復 fourth patient, 況 18 years 歲 gentleman with 其 pineal germinoma, 松果 tumor control 傌 3 years 至今 15 Gy 仍 GKRS. Based 上述 the outcome 綜合 these 4 單獨 radiosurgery alone 手術並 not recommended 中樞 the primary 細胞瘤 for intracranial GCTs.
顱咽瘤 are rare 於 tumors in 下垂 hypothalamo-pituitary region. 罕見 are most 發生 diagnosed in 與 young age. 了 report a 手術 man with 線 treated with 七十 and radiotherapy, 患者 also reviewed 於 literatures of 文獻
Craniopharyngiomas 顱咽瘤 rare brain 於 in the 下垂 region. They 罕見 most commonly 發生 in the 與 age. We 了 a 70-year-old 手術 with craniopharyngioma 線 with surgery 七十 radiotherapy, and 患者 reviewed the 於 of craniopharyngiomas.
目的 Our prior 我們 revealed that 經驗 least 1 於 safe margin 第三期 clivus direction 的 necessary to 於 good local 方向 of nasopharyngeal 放射 (NPC). We 範圍 studied whether 必須 irradiation to 一 T3/T4 NPC 達到 could decrease 局部 long-term side 了 to the 到 stem.
Patients and 部份 Sixty-nine patients 會 T3/T4 (American 原發 Committee on 之高劑 1997 staging 了 NPC were 放射 with concomitant 對 and twice 之 day radiation 設計 by adjuvant 二次 between September 配合 and December 以期 in Koo 局部 Sun Yat-Sen 不 Center, Taipei. 長 planning dose 受傷 radiation was 材料 Gy in 於 fractions, twice 至 day, 5 總 per week. 鼻咽癌 patient had 和 mm safe 接受 at clivus 放射 in the 併 field to 原發 Gy, 7mm 一天 10 mm 治療 60Gy at 治療 2nd boost 總共 and 3-7 給予 at the 每 boost field 之 a total 範圍 of 74.4 於 Twenty-five patients 治療 treated between 安全 and 1998; 為 previous treatment 之 data could 治療 retrieved for 安全 in our 至 CMS (Computerized 照射 Systems, INC) 安全 dimension treatment 降為 system for 病人 volume histogram 病人 of brain 之 Five patients 治療 from disease 治療 3 years 用 completion of 三度 were excluded 的 the analysis.
Results: 來 a minimal 幹 median follow-up 分 49 and 這 months, respectively, 中 local control 病人 of the 三年 patients was 死亡 Brain stem 列入 was observed 經過 one of 月 patients with 蹤 manifestation of 中位值 Ⅱ sensory 的 at ipsilateral 蹤 limb. There 病人 no treatment 局部 death. The 我們 maximal dose 其中 brain stem 有輕微 75.12 Gy 級 mean dose 上肢 35.56 Gy. 病人 average volumes 因腦 brain stem 死亡 more than 接受 Gy, 55 為 60 Gy, 接受 Gy, and 及 Gy were 體積 ml, 7.72 及 5.67 ml, 我們 ml, and 一天 ml, respectively.
Conclusion: 次 data indicated 可以 adequate irradiation 嚴重性 could be 之 safely with 之 for T3/T4 量 patients to 良好 good local 而 control without 長 long-term side 功能 to brain stem.
Purpose: 目的 prior study 我們 that at 經驗 1 cm 於 margin at 第三期 direction is 的 to obtain 於 local control 方向 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 放射 We retrospectively 範圍 whether hyperfractionation 必須 to treat 一 NPC patients 達到 decrease the 局部 side effect 了 the brain 到 and Methods: 部份 patients with 會 (American Joint 原發 on Cancer, 之高劑 staging system) 了 were treated 放射 concomitant chemotherapy 對 twice a 之 radiation followed 設計 adjuvant chemotherapy 二次 September 1991 配合 December 1998 以期 Koo Foundation 局部 Yat-Sen Cancer 不 Taipei. The 長 dose of 受傷 was 74.4 材料 in 62 於 twice a 至 5 days 總 week. Every 鼻咽癌 had 15 和 safe margin 接受 clivus direction 放射 the initial 併 to 40.8-43.2 原發 7mm to 一天 mm to 治療 at the 治療 boost field, 總共 3-7 mm 給予 the final 每 field to 之 total dose 範圍 74.4 Gy. 於 patients were 治療 between 1996 安全 1998; their 為 treatment plan 之 could be 治療 for analysis 安全 our current 至 (Computerized Medical 照射 INC) three 安全 treatment planning 降為 for dose 病人 histogram calculation 病人 brain stem. 之 patients died 治療 disease within 治療 years after 用 of treatment 三度 excluded from 的 analysis.
Results: With 來 minimal and 幹 follow-up of 分 and 97 這 respectively, 5-year 中 control rate 病人 the 20 三年 was 93.8%. 死亡 stem toxicity 列入 observed in 經過 of 20 月 with the 蹤 of grade 中位值 sensory loss 的 ipsilateral upper 蹤 There was 病人 treatment related 局部 The average 我們 dose to 其中 stem was 有輕微 Gy and 級 dose was 上肢 Gy. The 病人 volumes of 因腦 stem dose 死亡 than 50 接受 55 Gy, 為 Gy, 65 接受 and 70 及 were 10.32 體積 7.72 ml, 及 ml, 3.58 我們 and 1.72 一天 respectively.
Conclusion: Our 次 indicated that 可以 irradiation dose 嚴重性 be given 之 with hyperfractionation 之 T3/T4 NPC 量 to achieve 良好 local tumor 而 without significant 長 side effect 功能 brain stem.
目的 To compare 之 difference treatment 比 for complications 不同 long-term quality 方式 life (QoL) 下期 patients with 上期 IB and 病患 IIA uterine 的 carcinoma.
Materials and 生活 Three hundred 差異 thirty-six patients 方法 two institutions 兩機構 invited to 第一期 in this 第二期 Inclusive patients 頸癌 follow-up at 邀 2 years 與 the completion 均 the treatment 結束 periods: 25-218 以上 and were 至 ages 45-74 選擇 According to 位中 treatment modalities, 研究 were divided 治療 3 groups: 不同 (OP), radiation 手術 (RT), and 治療 with postoperative 放射 therapy (OP+RT). 病患 patients were 生活 to complete 宮頸癌 European Organization 的 Research and 並 of Cancer 生活 Core Quality 之 Life Questionnaire 共有 C-30) and 在 Questionnaire for 達 assessment of 差異 Total 8 腹瀉 of complicatons 排尿 statistically significant, 下肢 abdominal pain, 臉潮紅 constipation, blood 於 dysuria, urine 困難 edema of 之 extremities and 高 flush. Constipation, 兩組 and hot 於 were statistically 血 in OP 顯著 diarrhea and 術後放療 stools were 較 in RT 腹瀉 Significant higher 及 treated by 之 were: diarrhea, 生活 stools, urine 比 and edema 功能性 lower extremities. 的 of EORTC 和 the majority 以及 items showed 之 difference among 心 three treatment 食 except cognitive 便秘 and social 困難 in functional 到 and fatique, 的 poor appetite, 其餘多項 and economical 指標 in symptoms 組間 Our study 均 the different 意義 in stage 研究 and Stage 下期 uterine cervical 上期 patients treated 病患 different modalities, 治療 long-term QoL 副作用 little difference 期 these three 生活 modalities. These 不大 were helpful 於 clinical physician 考量 only for 治療 treatment modalities 生活 concerning with 改變 changes of 對 patients, but 後 for rehabilitation 健 supportive care 照護 the patients after treatment.
Purpose: 目的 compare the 之 treatment modalities 比 complications and 不同 quality of 方式 (QoL) in 下期 with stage 上期 and stage 病患 uterine cervical 的 and Methods: 生活 hundred and 差異 patients of 方法 institutions were 兩機構 to participate 第一期 this study. 第二期 patients were 頸癌 at least 邀 years after 與 completion of 均 treatment (follow-up 結束 25-218 months) 以上 were between 至 45-74 years. 選擇 to the 位中 modalities, they 研究 divided into 治療 groups: surgery 不同 radiation therapy 手術 and surgery 治療 postoperative radiation 放射 (OP+RT). All 病患 were asked 生活 complete the 宮頸癌 Organization for 的 and Treatment 並 Cancer (EORTC) 生活 Quality of 之 Questionnaire (QLQ 共有 and complications 在 for the 達 of QoL.
Results: 差異 8 items 腹瀉 complicatons were 排尿 significant, including 下肢 pain, diarrhea, 臉潮紅 blood stools, 於 urine incontience, 困難 of lower 之 and hot 高 Constipation, dysuria, 兩組 hot flush 於 statistically higher 血 OP group; 顯著 and blood 術後放療 were highter 較 RT group. 腹瀉 higher complications 及 by OP+RT 之 diarrhea, blood 生活 urine incontience 比 edema of 功能性 extremities. Comparison 的 EORTC QLQ-C30, 和 majority of 以及 showed little 之 among these 心 treatment modalities, 食 cognitive functioning 便秘 social functioning 困難 functional scales 到 fatique, nausea/vomiting, 的 appetite, constipation 其餘多項 economical difficult 指標 symptoms scales.
Conclusion: 組間 study revealed 均 different complications 意義 stage IB 研究 Stage IIA 下期 cervical cancer 上期 treated by 病患 modalities, whereas 治療 QoL seem 副作用 difference among 期 three different 生活 These data 不大 helpful for 於 physician not 考量 for selecting 治療 modalities when 生活 with QoL 改變 of the 對 but also 後 rehabilitation and 健 care of 照護 patients after treatment.
目的 To analyze 有關 results and 神經母 factors of 治療 (ENB).
Materials and 預 Twenty-one patients 材料 diagnosis of 自 treated between 年 and 2004 為 reviewed. There 細胞瘤 14 men 於 7 women. 包括 age ranged 與 17 to 病患 Presenting symptoms/signs, 自 extent, treatment 歲 survival time, 了 disease-free survival 初期 were recorded. 大小 patients (48%) 與 treated with 位 two-dimensional technique ) 11 (52%) 傳統 three-dimensional conformal 的 (3D-CRT). Patient's 位 status was ) with Karnofsky 立體 scale (KPS). 順形 extent was 病患 using Kadish 活動 Of the 依照 patients, 2 紀錄 Stage A, 分期 Stage B, 結果 16 Stage 的 After a 中 follow-up time 為 35 months, 期 patients are 在 with disease 的 4 are 蹤 without disease 後 failure occurred 病患 6 patients 位 distant metastases 有 noted in 病患 patients. Of 復 15 initially 位 patients who 遠端 not receive 位發病 neck irradiation, 頸部 (20%) failed 沒有 the neck. 頸部 overall survival 病患 was 42% 位 5-year disease 發生 survival rate 復 17%. In 年 analysis, age 年 vs. ＞60) 為 KPS (≧80 分析 ＜80) were 年齡 prognostic factors 初期 overall survival 影響 p=0.000, respectively) 後 disease-free survival 我們 p=0.001, respectively).
Conclusion: 與 results in 中報 series are 成果 with others. 發現 find that 與 and KPS 存活 significant prognostic 因子 in predicting 頸部 outcome. Due 在 relatively high 細胞瘤 of neck 中相 elective neck 預防性 seems worthy 照射 be considered 病患 selective patients.
Purpose: 目的 analyze treatment 有關 and prognostic 神經母 of esthesioneuroblastoma 治療 and methods: 預 patients with 材料 of ENB 自 between 1989 年 2004 were 為 There were 細胞瘤 men and 於 women. Patients' 包括 ranged from 與 to 88. 病患 symptoms/signs, tumor 自 treatment modalities, 歲 time, and 了 survival time 初期 recorded. Ten 大小 (48%) were 與 with conventional 位 technique and ) (52%) with 傳統 conformal radiotherapy 的 Patient's performance 位 was scored ) Karnofsky performance 立體 (KPS). Tumor 順形 was staged 病患 Kadish system.
Results: 活動 the 21 依照 2 were 紀錄 A, 3 分期 B, and 結果 Stage C. 的 a mean 中 time of 為 months, 4 期 are alive 在 disease and 的 are alive 蹤 disease Locoregional 後 occurred in 病患 patients and 位 metastases were 有 in 5 病患 Of the 復 initially node-negative 位 who did 遠端 receive elective 位發病 irradiation, 3 頸部 failed in 沒有 neck. Five-year 頸部 survival rate 病患 42% and 位 disease free 發生 rate was 復 In univariate 年 age (≦60 年 ＞60) and 為 (≧80 vs. 分析 were significant 年齡 factors for 初期 survival (p=0.019, 影響 respectively) and 後 survival (p=0.021, 我們 respectively).
Conclusion: Treatment 與 in our 中報 are compatible 成果 others. We 發現 that age 與 KPS are 存活 prognostic factors 因子 predicting the 頸部 Due to 在 high incidence 細胞瘤 neck failure, 中相 neck irradiation 預防性 worthy to 照射 considered in 病患 patients.
目的 Classic Kaposi's 波西 (CKS) is 是 prevalent indolent 的 among Eastern 盛行 and Mediterranean 地中海 but is 但是 in the 於 ethnic groups.
Radiotherapy 放射 provide symptom 於 and tumor 少數 in patients 病人 have a 解除 lesions in 但是 limited area. 大範圍 study was 並不 assess the 研究 of radiotherapy 評估 the local 波西 and the 對 relief of 線 CKS.
Materials and 局部 Between August 解除 and November 材料 48 patients 自 histologically proven 至 sarcoma were 本院 for review 資料 the Cancer 學證 of National 波西 University Hospital, 病患 patients were 回顧 human immunodeficiency 的 (HIV)-negative and 病患 organ-transplant recipients. 免疫 patients received 陽性 and were 器官移植 for this 治療 Treatment methods 利用 of local 能量 using Cobalt-60 或 megavoltage photon 由 or electron 決定 The treatment 照射 fractionation, and 數及 dose of 結果 were determined 病患 the clinical 進入 A total 其中 11 patients 位是 lesions) were 年齡 into this 病人 There were 蹤 men and 至 women, with 中位 mean age 月 66 years. 劑量 follow-up for 次 patients ranged 個 4 to 病患 months (median, 在 months). Target 個 ranged from 中 Gy in 治療 fractions to 消退 Gy in ) fractions, with 皆 exceptions in 消退 lesions (2 發期 The complete 中位 rate was 為止 (15 lesions), 個 the partial 月 was evident 的 the remaining 分別 Median free 所有 recurrence interval 都 not been 解除 The 3-month, 的 and 1.5-year 滲液 regional control 或 were 95%, 水腫 and 74%, 發生 Symptom relief 的 achieved in 管 patients. Chronic 的 including exudative 和 and variable 的 of edema 局部 rare and 線 With the 性卡 late complication 肉瘤 mild edema 佳 hyperpigmentation, local 有效 to CKS 本篇 well tolerated 局部 effective. These 治療 suggest that 局部 local radiotherapy 免疫 the effective 相關 modality for 性卡 related localized 肉瘤 Kaposi's sarcoma.
Purpose: 目的 Kaposi's sarcoma 波西 is a 是 indolent neoplasm 的 Eastern European 盛行 Mediterranean origin, 地中海 is rare 但是 the other 於 groups.
Radiotherapy may 放射 symptom relief 於 tumor control 少數 patients who 病人 a few 解除 in a 但是 area. This 大範圍 was to 並不 the effectiveness 研究 radiotherapy in 評估 local control 波西 the symptom 對 of the 線 and Methods: 局部 August 1994 解除 November 2004, 材料 patients with 自 proven Kaposi's 至 were selected 本院 review from 資料 Cancer Registry 學證 National Taiwan 波西 Hospital, eleven 病患 were both 回顧 immunodeficiency virus 的 and non 病患 recipients. These 免疫 received radiotherapy 陽性 were eligible 器官移植 this study. 治療 methods consisted 利用 local radiotherapy 能量 Cobalt-60 teletherapy, 或 photon beam 由 electron beam. 決定 treatment fields, 照射 and total 數及 of radiation 結果 determined on 病患 clinical basis.
Results: 進入 total of 其中 patients (20 位是 were enrolled 年齡 this study. 病人 were 9 蹤 and 2 至 with a 中位 age of 月 years. Median 劑量 for surviving 次 ranged from 個 to 44 病患 (median, 17 在 Target dose 個 from 30 中 in ten 治療 to 40 消退 in twenty ) with the 皆 in four 消退 (2 patients). 發期 complete response 中位 was 75% 為止 lesions), and 個 partial response 月 evident in 的 remaining lesions. 分別 free from 所有 interval has 都 been reached. 解除 3-month, 6-month 的 1.5-year local 滲液 control rates 或 95%, 74% 水腫 74%, respectively. 發生 relief was 的 in all 管 Chronic complications 的 exudative dermatitis 和 variable degrees 的 edema were 局部 and mild.
Conclusion: 線 the few 性卡 complication of 肉瘤 edema and 佳 local radiotherapy 有效 CKS was 本篇 tolerated and 局部 These data 治療 that the 局部 radiotherapy remains 免疫 effective treatment 相關 for non-HIV 性卡 localized classic 肉瘤 sarcoma.
目的 Prophylactic cranial 肺癌 (PCI) is 初始 suggested for 到 small cell 緩解 cancer (SCLC) 接受 with complete 放射 response to 在 therapies. We 我們 6 patients 位 no evidence 小細胞 brain metastasis 接受 more than 照射 follow-up after 年 PCI.
Materials and 轉移 From November 方法 through January 月 6 patients 月 diagnosed as 為 in our 的 Five patients 位 were male 是 1 (17%) ( female. The 女性 age at 平均 was 61 歲 All patients 的 classified as 皆 stage. According 限期 ECOG (Eastern 根據 Oncology Group) ) status, 1 評分 (17%) was ( to 0, 位 patients (66%) 是 1, and ) patient (17%) 病人 2. All 同步化 were treated 線 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 治療 Chemotherapy regimens 為 of cisplatin 的 etoposide. The 治療 cumulative thoracic 數為 dose was 病人 All 6 到 achieved complete 緩解 response after 總劑 and then 數為 received PCI 腦部 median cumulative 照射 of 36Gy.
Results: 位 patients were 最近 and had 蹤 long-term follow-up 存活 than 3 年 with no 轉移 of brain 追 The longest 間 duration was 個 months. Three 病人 (50%) had 有 to distant 的 other than 了 including 2 有骨 with bone 病人 one patient 轉移 kidney metastases.
Conclusions: 限型 our study, 病人 survival with 學 evidence of 放射 metastasis was 後 in patients 完全 SCLC receiving 接受 after complete 照射 response to 長 treatments of 且 Distant metastases 的 other sites 一半 developed in 病人 of these 腦部 PCI might 遠端 benefits in 於 distant metastasis 的 brain on 腦部 respect of 照射 to other 避免 sites with 的 follow-up.
Background: 目的 cranial irradiation 肺癌 is generally 初始 for limited-staged 到 cell lung 緩解 (SCLC) patients 接受 complete local 放射 to initial 在 We presented 我們 patients with 位 evidence of 小細胞 metastasis for 接受 than 3-year 照射 after receiving 年 and Methods: 轉移 November 1998 方法 January 2002, 月 patients were 月 as SCLC 為 our institution. 的 patients (83%) 位 male and 是 (17%) was ( The median 女性 at diagnosis 平均 61 years. 歲 patients were 的 as limited 皆 According to 限期 (Eastern Cooperative 根據 Group) performance ) 1 patient 評分 was scaled ( 0, 4 位 (66%) were 是 and 1 ) (17%) was 病人 All patients 同步化 treated with 線 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT). 治療 regimens consisted 為 cisplatin and 的 The median 治療 thoracic irradiation 數為 was 54Gy. 病人 6 patients 到 complete local 緩解 after CCRT, 總劑 then they 數為 PCI with 腦部 cumulative dose 照射 36Gy.
Results: All 位 were alive 最近 had a 蹤 follow-up more 存活 3 years 年 no evidence 轉移 brain metastasis. 追 longest follow-up 間 was 75 個 Three patients 病人 had metastasis 有 distant sites 的 than brain, 了 2 patients 有骨 bone and 病人 patient with 轉移 metastases.
Conclusions: In 限型 study, long-term 病人 with no 學 of brain 放射 was achieved 後 patients of 完全 receiving PCI 接受 complete local 照射 to initial 長 of CCRT. 且 metastases to 的 sites still 一半 in half 病人 these patients. 腦部 might have 遠端 in preventing 於 metastasis to 的 on the 腦部 of failures 照射 other distant 避免 with long-term 的
放射 uniformity is 治療 related to 均 control probability 癌症 and normal 腫瘤 complication probability 正常 An ideal 發生率 is one 計劃 which a 擬定 high dose 高劑 focused on 勻 tumor target 治療 and normal 正常 surrounding the 劑量 volume receives 為 radiation. Dose 目標 and uniformity 由 take into 各 the irregular 及 and density 差異性 within the 劑量 especially the 勻 neck, and 傳統 A physical 治療 has been 藉由 to compensate 楔形 irregular contours 補償 traditional treatment, 不均 a physical 實體 is limited 濾板 its fixed 角度 and size. 大小 addition, it 並僅 compensate for 的 dimensions simultaneously. 本論文 have developed 目的 two-dimensional dynamic 發 to overcome 二維 limitations.
A wedge-shaped 動態 map was 且 for this 照 The dose 傳統 was transferred 以利 a fluence 需要 in a 可以 treatment planning 均 to generate 的 multileaf motion 計算 We created 劑量 dynamic wedges 治療 verified them 通量 phantom measurements. 葉片 maximum differences 執行 the beam 利用 between the 準直 values and 葉片 measured values － 1.8%, 1.7%, 動態 -1.8% when 並以 for wedges 量 45 degrees, 絕對 degrees, and 的 degrees in 果 X direction, 在 -2.6% and ° when measured ° wedges at 動態 and 30 劑量 in the 最大 direction. The 差分 between the 具 curves for 軸向 two-dimensional dynamic 二維動態 were less 其二 2% and 等 Absolute doses 誤差 showed good 小 between calculated 絕對劑 measured values 各 this study 動態 that all 給予 were less 也 3%.
The two-dimensional 大 wedge developed 楔形 this study 可以 be valuable 的 simulating isodose 計劃機 and can 曲線 used for 患者 treatment planning 更好 is currently 放射 in many hospitals.
Dose 放射 is directly 治療 to tumor 均 probability (TCP) 癌症 normal tissue 腫瘤 probability (NTCP). 正常 ideal situation 發生率 one in 計劃 a uniform 擬定 dose is 高劑 on the 勻 target region 治療 normal tissue 正常 the target 劑量 receives minimal 為 Dose distribution 目標 uniformity must 由 into account 各 irregular contours 及 density changes 差異性 the body, 劑量 the head, 勻 and breast. 傳統 physical wedge 治療 been used 藉由 compensate for 楔形 contours during 補償 treatment, but 不均 physical wedge 實體 limited by 濾板 fixed angle 角度 size. In 大小 it cannot 並僅 for two 的 simultaneously. We 本論文 developed a 目的 dynamic wedge 發 overcome these 二維 wedge-shaped dose 動態 was calculated 且 this study. 照 dose map 傳統 transferred to 以利 fluence map 需要 a CadPlan 可以 planning program 均 generate a 的 motion file. 計算 created 6 劑量 wedges and 治療 them by 通量 measurements. The 葉片 differences in 執行 beam profiles 利用 the calculated 準直 and the 葉片 values were － 1.7%, and 動態 when measured 並以 wedges at 量 degrees, 15 絕對 and 38 的 in the 果 direction, and 在 and -2.3% ° measured for ° at 20 動態 30 degrees 劑量 the Y 最大 The differences 差分 the isodose 具 for the 軸向 dynamic wedges 二維動態 less than 其二 and 2mm. 等 doses also 誤差 good agreement 小 calculated and 絕對劑 values in 各 study such 動態 all differences 給予 less than 也 two-dimensional dynamic 大 developed in 楔形 study may 可以 valuable for 的 isodose curves 計劃機 can be 曲線 for CadPlan 患者 planning which 更好 currently used 放射 many hospitals.
目的 Intensity modulated 放射 therapy (IMRT) 是 one of 治療 most significant 式 advances in 系統 therapy. By 準直 the inverse 可以 planning system 出 mulitileaf collimator, 劑量 allows the 危急 implementation of 治療 conformal dose 接受 for target 的 and adjacent 保護 tissues sparing. 的 these advances 到 not come 接受 a risk. 在 clinical success 技術 failure of 佈 institution's IMRT 成為 depends on 的 correct delivery 的 3D dose 一套 calculated by 方法 planning system 的 the correct 方法 in the 直線 The objective 片多 this study 及 to establish 系統 dose verification . for IMRT 程序 and Methods: 病患 Varian 21EX 後 with the 治療 leaf multileaf 驗證 operated in ) MV and × MV x-ray 點劑 using dynamic 劑量 step and 點劑 delivery at 實際 MU/min was 的 for all 平面 Varian Eclipse 驗證則將 system (Ver. 設定 was used 的 The procedure 劑量 designed for 此計畫 steps. Step 的 Hybridize the 選擇 plan to 較 solid water 的 using the 量量 verification plan” 劑量 the Eclipse. 驗證 2. Recalculate 則選擇 dose distribution 點的 the phantom. 離腔劑 area of 測驗 dose gradient 點劑 select points 電腦 this area 比 point dose 掃 2D dose 量分析 at isocenter 比 each portal 計畫 calculated for 空間 Step 3. 佈 phantom is 的 irradiated according 的 this plan. 點劑 point doses 分析 measured using 資料 ion chamber 計畫 the 2D 其 distributions are 在 using Kodak 病患 film or 於 film. Kodak 平面 laser scanner 方面 DoseLab film 的 system are 分 for 2D 量值 comparison.
Results: The 有 of point 單點劑 of 124 提供 are within 量差 The calculated 劑量 distributions are 空間 to the 分 for the 較 dose comparison.
Conclusions: 在 chamber is 的 for IMRT 研究 dose verification. 所 dosimetry system 可以 this study 校驗 be used 對 IMRT 2D 質組織 distribution comparison. 及 dose verification 之劑 be done 一步 this procedure.
Purpose: 目的 modulated radiation 放射 (IMRT) represents 是 of the 治療 significant technical 式 in radiation 系統 By using 準直 inverse treatment 可以 system and 出 collimator, it 劑量 the clinical 危急 of highly 治療 dose distributions 接受 target coverage 的 adjacent normal 保護 sparing. However, 的 advances do 到 come without 接受 risk. The 在 success or 技術 of each 佈 IMRT program 成為 on the 的 delivery of 的 dose distributions 一套 by the 方法 system to 的 correct location 方法 the patient. 直線 objective of 片多 study is 及 establish a 系統 verification procedure . IMRT planning.
Materials 程序 Methods: A 病患 21EX linac 後 the 120 治療 multileaf collimator 驗證 in 6 ) and 10 × x-ray modes 點劑 dynamic and 劑量 and shoot 點劑 at 300 實際 was used 的 all irradiations. 平面 Eclipse planning 驗證則將 (Ver. 7.1) 設定 used also. 的 procedure was 劑量 for 3 此計畫 Step 1. 的 the patient 選擇 to a 較 water phantom 的 the ”create 量量 plan” in 劑量 Eclipse. Step 驗證 Recalculate the 則選擇 distribution in 點的 phantom. Find 離腔劑 of low 測驗 gradient and 點劑 points in 電腦 area for 比 dose verification. 掃 dose distribution 量分析 isocenter for 比 portal are 計畫 for comparison. 空間 3. The 佈 is then 的 according to 的 plan. The 點劑 doses are 分析 using CC01 資料 chamber and 計畫 2D dose 其 are measured 在 Kodak XV 病患 or EDR2 於 Kodak LS75 平面 scanner and 方面 film analysis 的 are used 分 2D dose 量值 The variations 有 point dose 單點劑 124 patients 提供 within 6%. 量差 calculated dose 劑量 are consistent 空間 the measurements 分 the 2D 較 comparison.
Conclusions: CC01 在 is suitable 的 IMRT point 研究 verification. Film 所 system in 可以 study can 校驗 used for 對 2D dose 質組織 comparison. IMRT 及 verification can 之劑 done by 一步 procedure.
目的 This research 內容 to study 污染 risk of 之 radiation induced 率 mortalities at 風險 dose rate 方法 for residents 日本 in 60Co-contaminated 起始 buildings.
Methods: The 數 factor for 推 living in 相加 contaminated buildings 與 evaluated by 估算 methods of 居民 time (additive 致死 and multiplicative 結果 and dose 居民 on the 致死 risk coefficient 於 Japanese A-bomb ) The derived ) factor is ( 12.15×10^(-2)Sv^(-1) and )
Purpose: 目的 research is 內容 study the 污染 of gamma 之 induced cancer 率 at low 風險 rate exposure 方法 residents living 日本 60Co-contaminated rebar 起始 The risk 數 for residents 推 in radiation 相加 buildings were 與 by extrapolation 估算 of population, 居民 (additive model 致死 multiplicative model) 結果 dose based 居民 the primary 致死 coefficient of 於 A-bomb survivor.
Results: ) derived risk ) is between ( and 0.55×10^(-2)Sv^(-1)
目的 To report 舌癌 case of 轉移 metastasis from 非常 squamous cell 報告 of tongue 以心 as malignant 為表現 effusion causing 經開 tamponade. This 轉移 was proven 癌 pathologic evidence.
Case 一位 This 67 的 old male 在 was diagnosed 時 left tongue 診斷 with initial 鱗狀 of T2N0M0 當時 received local 為 in March 外院 in another 局部 However, left 後 lymph node 輔助 occurred in 的 2004. Restaging 月 was arranged 下 no evidence 節 distant metastasis 病人 found. Then 至 received salvage 後 of concurrent 轉移 (CCRT) since 月 28, 2004. 了 radiotherapy, the 學 dose to 放射 LN and 年 tumor bed 年 whole lymphatic 接受 were 79.8 治療 and 62.4 次 respectively. The 線 of chemotherapy 期間 taxotere (12 Ⅱ plus cisplatin 反應外 mg/m2) weekly 平順 6 cycles. 的 total treatment 病人 was completed 性心 on December 產生 2004 except 包膜 WHO Grade 超音波 mucositis that 斷層 during treatment 發現 Unfortunately, pericardiac 有 occurred as 包膜 by cardiac 於 in February 功能 Refractory pericardiac 了 caused cardiac 功能 was still 醫師 despite of 日 pericardiocentesis. Chest 摘除 tomography (CT) 右心室 that a × within the 大小 ventricle and 腫瘤 pericardiac effusion. 確定 was performed 轉移 to progressive 癌 of cardiac 後 on February 加強性 2005.
Result: The 然而 tumor biopsy 於 metastatic squamous 日 carcinoma. Unfortunately, 逝世 patient died 轉移性 heart failure 的 after intensive 少見 treatment,
12 days 頭頸部 surgery.
Conclusion: Although 舌癌 tongue cancer 的 frequent in 腫瘤 and neck 時並 metastatic cardiac 表現 is a 且 occurrence. The 病人 of metastasis 於 heart is 所以 because of 診斷 cardiac symptoms. 腫瘤 importantly, the 我們 of cardiac 的 should be 患者 in mind 新 a new 疾病 of cardiac 的 occurred in 被 patient.
Purpose: 目的 report a 舌癌 of cardiac 轉移 from primary 非常 cell carcinoma 報告 tongue presented 以心 malignant pericardial 為表現 causing cardiac 經開 This case 轉移 proven by 癌 evidence.
Case report: 一位 67 years 的 male patient 在 diagnosed of 時 tongue carcinoma 診斷 initial staging 鱗狀 T2N0M0 and 當時 local excision 為 March 2004 外院 another hospital. 局部 left submandibular 後 node recurrence 輔助 in October 的 Restaging work-up 月 arranged and 下 evidence of 節 metastasis was 病人 Then he 至 salvage treatment 後 concurrent chemo-radiotherapy 轉移 since October 月 2004. For 了 the total 學 to recurrent 放射 and primary 年 bed with 年 lymphatic chain 接受 79.8 Gy 治療 62.4 Gy, 次 The regimen 線 chemotherapy was 期間 (12 mg/m2) Ⅱ cisplatin (30 反應外 weekly for 平順 cycles. The 的 treatment course 病人 completed smoothly 性心 December 24, 產生 except for 包膜 Grade Ⅱ 超音波 that developed 斷層 treatment period. 發現 pericardiac effusion 有 as diagnosed 包膜 cardiac echography 於 February 2005. 功能 pericardiac effusion 了 cardiac tamponade 功能 still persistent 醫師 of repeated 日 Chest computed 摘除 (CT) showed 右心室 a mass × the right 大小 and massive 腫瘤 effusion. Surgery 確定 performed owing 轉移 progressive degradation 癌 cardiac function 後 February 24, 加強性 The myocardiac 然而 biopsy proved 於 squamous cell 日 Unfortunately, this 逝世 died of 轉移性 failure even 的 intensive supportive 少見 days after 頭頸部 Although primary 舌癌 cancer is 的 in head 腫瘤 neck tumor, 時並 cardiac cancer 表現 a rare 且 The diagnosis 病人 metastasis to 於 is difficult 所以 of various 診斷 symptoms. Most 腫瘤 the diagnosis 我們 cardiac metastasis 的 be kept 患者 mind if 新 new onset 疾病 cardiac disease 的 in cancer 被
: This study : to investigate ( outcome of ( radiotherapy for ) breast cancer ) with locoregional . (LRR).
Materials and . This study : 63 patients : completed allocated . treatment for . after mastectomy ( October 1989 ( December 2000. ) distribution of ) American Joint . on Cancer ( 6th staging, ( included 4 ) I patients, ) stage ha . 22 stage . patients, 23 ( IIIa patients, ( 6 stage ) patients. The ) sites (including . in the . chest wall, ( in the ( fossa, and ) in the ( fossa) were ( with either ) beam or ) photon-electron beam ( The median ( dose was ) Gy (range, ) Gy). The ( survival (OS), ( free survival ) locoregional free ) (LRFS), and ( metastasis free ( (DMFS) rates ) compared by ; method (Log-rank ; Cox regression . was used . a multivariate : After a : follow-up of ( months (range, ( months), 35 ) (55.6%) had ) distant metastasis ( the time ( the most ) follow-up. The ) common sites . lung (41.7%) ( bone (44.4%). ( 3-year OS ) was 54%. ) overall 3-year ( rate was ( The overall ) LRFS rate ) 50.8%. The . 3-year DMFS . was 34.9%. . 3-year OS . single site . multiple site . was 60.4% . 20% (p=0.02), . the 3-year . for small ( tumor (＜=3cm) ( large tumor/multiple ) was 71.9% ) 35.5%, respectively ( Analysis of ( nodal status ＜ that the ＜ OS for ) with no ) metastasis was ( and that ( patients with ＜ node metastasis ＜ 46.9% (p=0.04). ) addition, the . OS for . with long ( period (＞24 ( and short ) period was ) and 33.3% . respectively. The . OS for ( with and ( surgery for ＞ tumor was ＞ and 25% ) respectively.
Conclusion: Salvage ) is effective ( achieving satisfactory ＜ control in ＜ with early ) disease and ) lymph node . who developed . For patients ( multiple or ( recurrent tumors, ＜ well as ＜ initial lymph ) metastasis, it ) imperative to . more aggressive . treatment to : treatment outcome.
Purpose: : study aimed : investigate the ( of salvage ( for post-mastectomy ) cancer patients ) locoregional recurrence . and Methods: . study comprised : patients who : allocated radiation . for LRR . mastectomy from ( 1989 to ( 2000. The ) of initial ) Joint Committee . Cancer (AJCC) ( staging, 2002, ( 4 stage ) patients, 8 ) ha patients, . stage IIb . 23 stage ( patients, and ( stage IIIb ) The recurrent ) (including 40 . the ipsilateral . wall, 16 ( the axillary ( and 22 ) the supraclavicular ( were treated ( either electron ) or combined ) beam therapy. ( median prescribed ( was 60 ) (range, 40-66 ) The overall ( (OS), disease ( survival (DFS), ) free survival ) and distant ( free survival ( rates were ) by Kaplan-Meier ; (Log-rank test); ; regression model . used for . multivariate analysis.
Results: : a median : of 36 ( (range, 3-93 ( 35 patients ) had developed ) metastasis at ( time of ( most recent ) The most ) sites were . (41.7%) and ( (44.4%). The ( OS rate ) 54%. The ) 3-year DFS ( was 31.7%. ( overall 3-year ) rate was ) The overall . DMFS rate . 34.9%. The . OS for . site and . site recurrence . 60.4% and . (p=0.02), while . 3-year OS . small recurrent ( (＜=3cm) and ( tumor/multiple lesions ) 71.9% and ) respectively (p＜0.01). ( of initial ( status revealed ＜ the 3-year ＜ for patients ) no node ) was 78.6% ( that for ( with positive ＜ metastasis was ＜ (p=0.04). In ) the 3-year . for patients . long latent ( (＞24 months) ( short latent ) was 81.5% ) 33.3% (p＜0.01), . The 3-year . for patients ( and without ( for recurrent ＞ was 63.8% ＞ 25% (p＜0.01), ) Salvage radiotherapy ) effective in ( satisfactory local ＜ in patients ＜ early stage ) and no ) node metastasis . developed LRR. . patients with ( or large ( tumors, as ＜ as advanced ＜ lymph node ) it is ) to incorporate . aggressive systemic . to improve : outcome.
目的 To report 性 institution's experience 報告 radiotherapy (RT) 小細胞癌 extrapulmonary small 治療 carcinoma (EPSCCA).
Materials 與 Methods: Between 年 and 2004, 共有 patients with 證實 EPSCCA received 肺部 in our 病人 with either 接受 or palliative 治療 Study eligibility 之 that the 在 had pathologically-proven 的 cell carcinoma 病理 sites other 證實 the lung, 細胞癌 normal chest 診斷 and/or computed 的 of the 電腦 and a 必須 sputum cytology 其痰 negative bronchoscopic 或 at diagnosis. 檢查 medical records 異常 each patient 回溯 reviewed retrospectively 病歷 clinical outcomes 比較 compared.
Results: Primary 治療 of EPSCCA 非 our series 的 7 patients 為 the gynecological 位 6 in 鼻 and neck 位 3 in 胃腸 bladder, 3 位 the gastrointestinal 鎖骨下 1 in 各 breast, and 其中 in the 為 soft tissue. 之際為 patients had 局限 disease (ED) 這 16 had 為 disease (LD) 的 initial work-up. 位一 was delivered 接受 11 of 治療 patients with 位 as part 等到 the initial 發 therapy, and 時 5 with 放射 or metastasis 的 salvage or 存活率 The 2-year 病人 survival for 局限 and LD 為 were 0% 蹤 49.2%, respectively. 病人 follow-up, a 發生 of 17 放射 of the 擴散型 patients developed 局限 metastases. There 疾病 a 60% 或 rate for 病人 patients with 反應率 at diagnosis 型 LD with 接受 or metastasis 治療 RT initiated. 其中 the 11 手術 with LD 局部 receiving RT 或合 part of 治療 initial primary 有 one of 發生 patients receiving 發 followed by 初始 RT (with 局部 without chemotherapy) 或合 local recurrence. 治療 remaining five 其 received RT 的 or chemotherapy 不 RT had 位發生 100% response 發 However, four 月 them developed 病人 relapses at 局部 median duration 和 8 months. 存活率 2-year local 和 and disease-free 肺部 for patients 放射 LD were 反應 and 27%, 這個 EPSCCA was 早期 to radiotherapy. 遠端 distant metastasis 局部 local recurrence 需要 the disease 更 more aggressive 併 therapy.
Purpose: 目的 report our 性 experience of 報告 (RT) on 小細胞癌 small cell 治療 (EPSCCA).
Materials and 與 Between 1991 年 2004, 21 共有 with tissue-proven 證實 received RT 肺部 our hospital 病人 either curative 接受 palliative intents. 治療 eligibility required 之 the patients 在 pathologically-proven small 的 carcinoma in 病理 other than 證實 lung, a 細胞癌 chest radiograph 診斷 computed tomography 的 the chest, 電腦 a normal 必須 cytology or 其痰 bronchoscopic findings 或 diagnosis. The 檢查 records of 異常 patient were 回溯 retrospectively and 病歷 outcomes were 比較 Primary sites 治療 EPSCCA in 非 series included: 的 patients in 為 gynecological system, 位 in head 鼻 neck regions, 位 in urinary 胃腸 3 in 位 gastrointestinal system, 鎖骨下 in the 各 and 1 其中 the infra-clavicular 為 tissue. Five 之際為 had extended 局限 (ED) and 這 had limited 為 (LD) at 的 work-up. RT 位一 delivered to 接受 of 16 治療 with LD 位 part of 等到 initial primary 發 and to 時 with relapse 放射 metastasis as 的 or palliation. 存活率 2-year overall 病人 for ED 局限 LD EPSCCA 為 0% and 蹤 respectively. During 病人 a total 發生 17 (81%) 放射 the 21 擴散型 developed distant 局限 There was 疾病 60% response 或 for those 病人 with ED 反應率 diagnosis or 型 with relapse 接受 metastasis when 治療 initiated. For 其中 11 patients 手術 LD and 局部 RT as 或合 of the 治療 primary therapy, 有 of six 發生 receiving surgery 發 by adjuvant 初始 (with or 局部 chemotherapy) developed 或合 recurrence. The 治療 five who 其 RT alone 的 chemotherapy and 不 had a 位發生 response rate. 發 four of 月 developed local 病人 at a 局部 duration of 和 months. The 存活率 local relapse-free 和 disease-free survivals 肺部 patients with 放射 were 53% 反應 27%, respectively.
Conclusion: 這個 was sensitive 早期 radiotherapy. Easily 遠端 metastasis and 局部 recurrence of 需要 disease warrant 更 aggressive combination 併
目的 This prospective, 主要 study was 吩 evaluate the 片劑 and the 於 of using 癌症病人 for severe 放射 mucositis pain 引發 by concurrent 炎 (CCRT) in 其 and neck 安全性 (HNC) patients.
Materials 與 Methods: Patients 研究 as HNC 為 scheduled for 為 chemoradiotherapy were 並以 for this 治療 TTS-fentanyl was 當 with the 過程 dose of 的 μg/h when 疼痛 mucositis pain ≧ rating scale 以 occurred in 炎劑 of nonsteroid 及類 drugs (NSAID) 到 topical steroidal 給予 use. The 穿皮 intensity was 其 every week 一個 if severe 做 persisted, another 評估 of 25 於 TTS-fentanyl was 吩 The adverse 貼 were recorded 一片 week according 根據 Common Toxicity 記錄 (CTC) Version 穿皮 From October 的 to March 自 21 male 年 1 female 共有 CCRT with 及 were recruited 癌症 this study. 同步化 mean NRS 之 pain significantly 收入 from 7.65±0.99 中 to 3.9±1.29 吩 the first 貼 In the 原來 week, the 降至 raised to 第五 but was 上升 lower than 但 baseline (p=0.003). 低 sufficient analgesia ( achieved in 適當 cases with 劑量 dose of μ μg/h, in 有 cases with 則有 dose of 患者 μg/h, and 的 1 case 及 a dose 在 100 μg/h. 停止使用 patient withdrew 穿皮 TTS-fentanyl due 並沒有 intolerable skin 抑制 and vomiting 或者 the second 級 Besides, no 道 developed respiratory 坦尼 mental clouding, 片劑 grade Ⅲ/IV 控制 toxicities.
Conclusion: TTS-fentanyl 同步化 effective and 治療 in the 嚴重 of mucositis-induced 疼痛 which is 且 to NSAID 坦尼 HNC patients 亦 CCRT. TTS-fentanyl 吞 spares the 或 to swallow 困難 killers in 藥物 patients suffering 性 odynophagia and/or 了 as well 止痛 the time 需 titration of 需要 analgesic drugs. 的 larger series 以 randomized setting 吩 warranted to 貼 the efficacy 口腔粘膜 safety of 的 for oral mucositis pain.
Purpose: 目的 prospective, longitudinal 主要 was to 吩 the efficacy 片劑 the safety 於 using TTS-fentanyl 癌症病人 severe oral 放射 pain induced 引發 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 炎 in head 其 neck cancer 安全性 patients.
Materials and 與 Patients diagnosed 研究 HNC and 為 for concurrent 為 were eligible 並以 this study. 治療 was given 當 the initial 過程 of 25 的 when severe 疼痛 pain (numeric ≧ scale [NRS]≧7) 以 in spite 炎劑 nonsteroid anti-inflammatory 及類 (NSAID) and 到 steroidal ointment 給予 The pain 穿皮 was assessed 其 week and 一個 severe pain 做 another dose 評估 25 μg/h 於 was given. 吩 adverse effects 貼 recorded every 一片 according to 根據 Toxicity Criteria 記錄 Version 2.0.
Results: 穿皮 October 2002 的 March 2003, 自 male and 年 female receiving 共有 with HNC 及 recruited to 癌症 study. The 同步化 NRS for 之 significantly decreased 收入 7.65±0.99 (baseline) 中 3.9±1.29 within 吩 first week. 貼 the fifth 原來 the NRS 降至 to 4.79±1.18 第五 was still 上升 than the 但 (p=0.003). The 低 analgesia was ( in 15 適當 with a 劑量 of 25 μ in 5 有 with a 則有 of 50 患者 and in 的 case with 及 dose of 在 μg/h. One 停止使用 withdrew the 穿皮 due to 並沒有 skin rash 抑制 vomiting in 或者 second week. 級 no one 道 respiratory depression, 坦尼 clouding, or 片劑 Ⅲ/IV gatrointestinal 控制 TTS-fentanyl is 同步化 and safe 治療 the treatment 嚴重 mucositis-induced pain 疼痛 is resistant 且 NSAID in 坦尼 patients receiving 亦 TTS-fentanyl also 吞 the need 或 swallow pain 困難 in these 藥物 suffering from 性 and/or dysphagia, 了 well as 止痛 time for 需 of conventional 需要 drugs. Further 的 series with 以 setting is 吩 to evaluate 貼 efficacy and 口腔粘膜 of TTS-fentanyl 的 oral mucositis pain.
: To discuss : differences of : distribution between ( dual-phase IMRT ( one-phase IMRT ( the patients & head-and-neck (H&N) & with enlarged ) lymph nodes.
Materials ) Methods: From ) 2003 to . 2004, we . 6 patients . H&N cancers : enlarged cervical : nodes. Initially, & arranged first & by CT-MRI & for one-phase . awl prescribed . cGy on . including enlarged ( nodes (Plan ( Five weeks ) we arranged ) second simulation ) the same . to design . IMRT and . 2700 cGy ( GTV (Plan ( All 6 ) received concurrent ) (CCRT) with ) 30 mg/wk . The IMRT . was simultaneous ( boost (SIB). ( we combined ( CT images ) superimposed the ) map of ) A onto . second CT . to get ( Plan C. ( we compared ( B with ) C.
Result: When ) compared two ) images, we . that those . lymph nodes . regressed or . after plan . treatment, which . the skin . parotid gland . into the : dose area. : the comparison . both plans, . had a . better conformal . than C . CTV. Using ( test to ( the D(subscript ( D(supbscript 30%) ) D(subscript mean) ) Plan B ) C for ( sparing of ( glands, B ) better results ) C (p＜0.001). ) the dual-phase ( treatment planning ( provide another ( to significantly ) the irradiation ) to parotid ( This study ( that if ( patient's contour ＜ without modifying ＜ prior IMRT ＜ planning, the ) of parotid ) and the . will increase . the conformity . dose distribution . decrease, which . the result ' IMRT.
Purpose: : discuss the : of dose : between the ( IMRT and ( IMRT in ( patients of & (H&N) cancers & enlarged cervical ) nodes.
Materials and ) From April ) to June . we collected . patients of . cancers with : cervical lymph : Initially, we & first simulation & CT-MRI fusion & one-phase IMRT . prescribed 4500 . on GTV . enlarged lymph ( (Plan A). ( weeks later, ) arranged the ) simulation by ) same method . design dual-phase . and prescribed . cGy on ( (Plan B). ( 6 patients ) concurrent chemoradiotherapy ) with cisplatin ) mg/wk intravenously. . IMRT technique . simultaneous intensity ( (SIB). Furthermore, ( combined two ( images and ) the fluence ) of Plan ) onto the . CT images . get the ( C. Finally, ( compared Plan ( with Plan ) When we ) two CT ) we found . those enlarged . nodes already . or disappeared . plan A . which made . skin and . gland fall . the high : area. From : comparison of . plans, B . a much . conformal index . C for . Using t ( to analyze ( D(subscript 50%), ( 30%) and ) mean) of ) B and ) for the ( of parotid ( B had ) results than ) (p＜0.001). Therefore, ) dual-phase IMRT ( planning can ( another way ( significantly decrease ) irradiation doses ) parotid glands.
Conclusion ( study indicate ( if the ( contour changes ＜ modifying the ＜ IMRT treatment ＜ the doses ) parotid glands ) the skin . increase and . conformity of . distribution will . which affect . result of '
目的 To evaluate 綜合 outcome of 近 hyperfractionated radiation 形神 in patients 母細胞瘤 glioblastoma multiforme 進行 terms of 放射 survival and 作回 factors.
Material and 分析 From September 改變 to April 放射 27 post-operative 對 multiforme patients 並綜合 hyperfractionated radiation 作討論 with twice 與 fractions of 至 Gy at 位術後多 dose of 經膠 Gy, except 病患 child who 接受 twice daily 的 Gy fraction 次 a dose 除了 64.8 Gy. 以外 adjuvant chemotherapy 病患 applied. All 兩次 were irradiated 量 after 3-dimensional 唯一 treatment planning. 小孩 were 4 治療 who received 給到 courses of 每位 therapy to 三度 same region 治療 the brain 定位 tumor recurrence, 計畫 which the 病患 course was 接受 treatment and 其中 second course 四位 either hyperfractionation 復 conventional fractionation. 接受 and tumor 全程 were investigated 治療 survival differences 以 Kaplan-Meier method 放射 Log-Rank test. 一天 include age, 的 Karnofsky Performance 治療 tumor maximum 存活率 and types 計算 surgery.
Results: Median 估年齡 of our 最大 patients was 及 months, with 方式 year and 的 survival probabilities 中位 44% and 為 respectively. The 一年 of patients 的 received two 是 courses of 那 treatment did 了 well in 的 ranged 12 治療 41 months. 他們 with Karnofsky 相當長 Score equal 個 greater than 個 had longer 至 survival than 存活 less than 較 (12 months 長 10 months, 個 This difference 及 statistically significant ( Although patients 上 than 55 具有 seemed to 歲 better than 年 older or 病患 to 55 起來 (median survival 歲 13 months 以上 11 months), 病患 significant survival 月 was noted. 個 who received 但統 resection had 是 median survival 意義的 months) than 變數 who received 統計學 resection (7 差異 but this 次 did not 治療 statistical significance 處 Other tumor 可以 patient factors 對 no survival 放射 The advantage 下 hyperfractionation radiation 組織 is to 傷害 total tumor 對 without increasing 太 in normal 而且 Total dose 經膠 72 Gy 病患 well tolerated 能 glioblastoma multiform 治療 given in 期間 fashion. Overall 未 rate and 嚴重 survival of 發症 patients are 病患 to other 存活率 of altered 報告 treatment regime. 此 Performance Score 中 the most 在 prognostic factors 具有 our study.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 綜合 of post-operative 近 radiation therapy 形神 patients with 母細胞瘤 multiforme in 進行 of overall 放射 and prognostic 作回 and Methods: 分析 September 1999 改變 April 2004, 放射 post-operative glioblastoma 對 patients received 並綜合 radiation therapy 作討論 twice daily 與 of 1.2 至 at a 位術後多 of 72 經膠 except one 病患 who received 接受 daily 1.08 的 fraction at 次 dose of 除了 Gy. No 以外 chemotherapy was 病患 All patients 兩次 irradiated locally 量 3-dimensional conformal 唯一 planning. There 小孩 4 patients 治療 received 2 給到 of radiation 每位 to the 三度 region of 治療 brain for 定位 recurrence, in 計畫 the first 病患 was hyperfractionated 接受 and the 其中 course were 四位 hyperfractionation or 復 fractionation. Patient 接受 tumor factors 全程 investigated for 治療 differences using 以 method and 放射 test. These 一天 age, sex, 的 Performance Score, 治療 maximum diameter, 存活率 types of 計算 Median survival 估年齡 our 27 最大 was 12 及 with 1 方式 and 2-year 的 probabilities of 中位 and 19%, 為 The group 一年 patients who 的 two full 是 of radiation 那 did fairly 了 in survival 的 12 to 治療 months. Patients 他們 Karnofsky Performance 相當長 equal or 個 than 70 個 longer median 至 than patients 存活 than 70 較 months and 長 months, respectively). 個 difference is 及 significant (p=0.0443). ( patients younger 上 55 years 具有 to do 歲 than those 年 or equal 病患 55 years 起來 survival of 歲 months versus 以上 months), no 病患 survival difference 月 noted. Patients 個 received total 但統 had better 是 survival (12 意義的 than patients 變數 received inadequate 統計學 (7 months), 差異 this difference 次 not reach 治療 significance either. 處 tumor or 可以 factors showed 對 survival difference.
Conclusion: 放射 advantage of 下 radiation treatment 組織 to escalate 傷害 tumor dose 對 increasing toxicity 太 normal tissues. 而且 dose of 經膠 Gy is 病患 tolerated by 能 multiform patients 治療 in hyperfractionated 期間 Overall survival 未 and median 嚴重 of our 發症 are comparable 病患 other studies 存活率 altered fractionation 報告 regime. Karnofsky 此 Score is 中 most important 在 factors in 具有 study.
目的 To study 放射 characteristics of 常用 radiographic films 二種 their linearly 驗證 ranges.
Methods and 特性 Measurement and 線性 the sensitometric 範圍 to analyze 和 dose performance 光密度 recommend the 圖 responsive range 最 XV and 的 films. The 並建議 of dose 之 field size, 適劑 and energy 另外 x-ray were 劑量 to evaluate 深度 change in 能量 density.
Results Comparing 和 responsive region 的 sensitometric curves, 程度 slope of & film is 圖知 than EDR2 的 and the 大 dose of 飽和點 film is 劑 than EDR2 較 It means 明此 range of 可測量 film is 範圍 than that 窄 EDR2 film. 的 photographic density 率 lot changed 底片 the dose 底片 As the 光密度 size changed 並無明 5×5 to 照野 cm^2, the 平方公分 of four 至 densities was 對二種 than 1.5%. 光密度 change of 均 density was 於 than 2.3% 的 a depth 對二種 5 cm 光密度 20 cm. 於 the energy 從 4 MV 光密度 10 MV, 而 density increased 增加 for XV 在 and 8.2% 曝露 EDR2 film.
Conclusion: 建議 recommend the 的 range of 量 film is 範圍 20 to 而 cGy and 之 film is 量 25 to 範圍 cGy, at 在 exposure of 圖 MV x-ray. 最 film has 底片 better linear 線 between photographic 底片 and dose 在 XV film. 的 dose rate 適劑 and a 內 change ill 照野 size and 對 were found. 影響 the x-ray 忽略 is an 對 parameter to 的 measurement of 不容 density.
Purpose: 目的 study the 放射 of two 常用 films and 二種 linearly response 驗證 and Materials: 特性 and using 線性 sensitometric curves 範圍 analyze the 和 performance and 光密度 the best 圖 range for 最 and EDR2 的 The parameters 並建議 dose rate, 之 size, depth, 適劑 energy of 另外 were applied 劑量 evaluate the 深度 in photographic 能量 Comparing the 和 region in 的 curves, the 程度 of XV & is larger 圖知 EDR2 film 的 the saturation 大 of XV 飽和點 is less 劑 EDR2 film. 較 means responsive 明此 of XV 可測量 is smaller 範圍 that of 窄 film. The 的 density was 率 changed with 底片 dose rate. 底片 the field 光密度 changed from 並無明 to 20×20 照野 the variation 平方公分 four photographic 至 was less 對二種 1.5%. The 光密度 of photographic 均 was less 於 2.3% within 的 depth form 對二種 cm to 光密度 cm. Replacing 於 energy of 從 MV with 光密度 MV, the 而 increased 8.9% 增加 XV film 在 8.2% for 曝露 film.
Conclusion: We 建議 the responsive 的 of XV 量 is from 範圍 to 90 而 and EDR2 之 is from 量 to 400 範圍 at the 在 of 10 圖 x-ray. EDR2 最 has a 底片 linear relationship 線 photographic density 底片 dose than 在 film. No 的 rate effect 適劑 a little 內 ill field 照野 and depth 對 found. But, 影響 x-ray clergy 忽略 an important 對 to the 的 of photographic 不容
目的 In radiographic 於 the performance 証 the digitizing 數位 is highly 因 on the 的 mechanism or 影響 of light 影像 Previous analysis 差異 the two 曾 of digitizers ) ROC (receiver 不同 characteristics) method 得到 shown no 之 differences. However, 上述 method by 來 determination is 差異 sensitive for 並不適 purpose.
We evaluated 劑量 compared the 之 features between 評估 digitizers that 型態 purchased in 應用 same particular 劑量 (1998's) by 的 same hospital. 二台 have been 於 used for 醫 tools and 購買 dosimetry.
Materials and 年份 The duplicate 利用 (Kodak, RA 機器 Film) were 工具 to be 方法 of standard 製 strip (Kodak ) step tablet 標 21 steps, 片 range 0.05～3.05) . other test 及其 Two digitizers 用 used to 將測 those films. 經過 digitizer was 掃描器 Vidar VXR-12 螢光燈 with fluorescent ) source and 為 other was ( with laser 用 source.
Test films 設計用 made in 較並 to investigate 之 warm-up effect, 訊 ratio, percentage 比 deviation, optical 誤差 range, transmission 假影 and Moiré 性假影 Those features ) be affected 上述 films were 造成 into corresponding ( through the 變動 digitizers.
Results: Varying 劑量 O.D. range 的 the feature 掃描器 signal-to-noise ratio, 對 standard deviation, 標準誤 transmitting capacity 穿透 performed by 根據 The digitizer 值 a laser 影響 source was 掃描器 more stable 情況 such circumstances. 穩定 the other 另一方面 the digitizer 掃 a broadband 較 light source 假影 a minor 有 artifact and 影產生 Moiré artifacts 掃 the previous 軟片 Selection of 証 digitizer for 慮 dosimetry depends 目的 what kind 掃描器 data one 較 want to 空間 A fluorescence 光照 digitizer has 照野 higher spatial 照射 and is 等 suitable for 利用 field-light field 檢查 and star 光源 check. On 提供 other hand, 寬 laser beam 量分析 offers wilder 較 range and less noise.
Purpose: 目的 radiographic dosimetry, 於 performance of 証 digitizing system 數位 highly dependent 因 the illumination 的 or characteristics 影響 light source. 影像 analysis of 差異 two types 曾 digitizers by ) (receiver operator 不同 method has 得到 no significant 之 However, ROC 上述 by visual 來 is not 差異 for dosimetry 並不適 evaluated and 劑量 the distinctive 之 between two 評估 that were 型態 in the 應用 particular year 劑量 by the 的 hospital. They 二台 been routinely 於 for QA 醫 and film 購買 and Methods: 年份 duplicate films 利用 RA Duplicating 機器 were made 工具 be replicas 方法 standard O.D. 製 (Kodak photographic ) tablet no.3, 標 steps, O.D. 片 0.05～3.05) and . test films. 及其 digitizers were 用 to digitize 將測 films. One 經過 was the 掃描器 VXR-12 PLUS 螢光燈 fluorescent light ) and the 為 was Lumiscan-50 ( laser beam 用 films were 設計用 in order 較並 investigate their 之 effect, signal-to-noise 訊 percentage standard 比 optical density 誤差 transmission artifact 假影 Moiré artifacts. 性假影 features might ) affected when 上述 were converted 造成 corresponding value ( the above-mentioned 變動 Varying in 劑量 range influence 的 feature of 掃描器 ratio, percentage 對 deviation, and 標準誤 capacity that 穿透 by digitizers. 根據 digitizer with 值 laser beam 影響 was shown 掃描器 stable in 情況 circumstances. On 穩定 other hand, 另一方面 digitizer with 掃 broadband fluorescent 較 source had 假影 minor transmission 有 and no 影產生 artifacts than 掃 previous one.
Conclusions: 軟片 of a 証 for film 慮 depends on 目的 kind of 掃描器 one would 較 to acquire. 空間 fluorescence light 光照 has a 照野 spatial resolution 照射 is more 等 for radiation 利用 field coincident 檢查 star shoot 光源 On the 提供 hand, a 寬 beam digitizer 量分析 wilder dose 較 and less noise.
頭頸 of head 節瘤 neck are 偶發 tumors that 盛行 sporadically with 所有 prevalence of 的 1 in 大部分 of head 節瘤 neck tumors. 治療 treatment of 外科 is often 術 resection for 放射 paragangliomas. Postoperative 可以 may be 腫瘤 in slowing 在 progression of 我們 disease. We 以 a case 併 paraganglioma of 的 and neck 神經 the treatment 患者 surgery plus 於 irradiation and 節瘤 the literatures of paraganglioma.
Paragangliomas 頭頸 head and 節瘤 are rare 偶發 that occur 盛行 with the 所有 of about 的 in 30,000 大部分 head and 節瘤 tumors. The 治療 of choice 外科 often surgical 術 for most 放射 Postoperative irradiation 可以 be beneficial 腫瘤 slowing the 在 of residual 我們 We reported 以 case of 併 of head 的 neck with 神經 treatment of 患者 plus postoperative 於 and reviewed 節瘤 literatures of paraganglioma.
從 tumors to 口腔 from non-oral 的 are very 腫瘤轉 It accounts 齒齦 for less 非常 4% of 佔 metastatic tumors 轉移 the oral 病例 The lung 百分之四 breast are 遠端 most common 到 primary sites 軟組織 metastasis to 肺癌 soft tissue. 乳癌 from the 除頸部 cancer to 上 cavity and 結 region are 直腸 rare, except 移至 neck and 極為 lymph node. 本文 will describe 由 rare case 腺癌 primary adenocarcinoma 移至 rectum with 的 to the 病例 of the 齦 Although the 的 of patients 當差 gingival metastasis 給予 felt to 放射 poor, regional 對 is effective 這嚴重 the palliative 的 to the 轉移 metastatic lesion 種 the advanced 姑息
Metastatic 從 to gingival 口腔 non-oral malignancies 的 very uncommon. 腫瘤轉 accounts only 齒齦 less than 非常 of all 佔 tumors to 轉移 oral cavity. 病例 lung and 百分之四 are the 遠端 common distant 到 sites for 軟組織 to oral 肺癌 tissue. Metastases 乳癌 the rectal 除頸部 to oral 上 and neck 結 are extremely 直腸 except to 移至 and supraclavicular 極為 node. We 本文 describe a 由 case of 腺癌 adenocarcinoma of 移至 with metastasis 的 the gingiva 病例 the mouth. 齦 the prognosis 的 patients with 當差 metastasis is 給予 to be 放射 regional radiotherapy 對 effective for 這嚴重 palliative purpose 的 the local 轉移 lesion of 種 advanced disease.
目的 This retrospective 抗原 reviewed the 分析 relapse free 臨床 rates after 局部 with radiotherapy 放射 radical prostatectomy 與 for clinical 摘除 Tl-T2 localized 的 cancer.
Methods and 與 The study 月 comprised 235 共有 treated at 的 Urology section 病人 Radiation Oncology 放射 in our 攝護腺 All patients ( pretreatment prostate-specific 病人 (iPSA) levels 前 biopsy Gleason 濃度 (bGSs) Neoadjuvant 分數 block treatment 前 given for 不超 than 6 後 No adjuvant 給予 was given 治療 local therapy. ) patients (50.6%) 手術 undergone radical 病灶 (RP). 52 本 (22.1%) received 接受 38 patients 治療 received EBRT≥70Gy, 者 patients (3%) ) treated with 者 TURP radiotherapy ) combined interstitial 治療 radiotherapy was 治療 for 19 ( (8.1%). Only ( with free 尿道 margin were 體外 in the 放射 of RP, 小 median radiation 於 in EBRT＜70Gy 是 EBRT≥70Gy was 的 and 70.2Gy, 時 The median 月 time for 治療 patients was 治療 months. Biochemical 不 was defined 高 two consecutive 復 for RP 惡化 three consecutive 床上 PSA levels 腺癌 Society for 治療 Radiology Oncology 檢 definition) for 無持續 other cases. 或 regression multivariate ) was performed 臨床 clinical T 的 bGS, iPSA 分數 treatment modality.
Results: 變數 5-year bRFS 無 relapse free ) for RP 結果 radiotherapy was 線 and 59% ( The 7-year 與 for RP 與 radiotherapy was 手術 and 45% 中 Multivariate analysis 與 iPSA (p=0.029) 是 bGS (p=0.006) 發預 be independent ( of relapse. 分期 modality and 復 T stage 後 not independent 局部 of relapse.
Conclusion: 根除 was no 較 difference between 也 and radiotherapy 治療 the view 復 biochemical relapse 沒有 stage T1-T2 prostate cancer
Purpose: 目的 retrospective analysis 抗原 the biochemical 分析 free survival 臨床 after treatment 局部 radiotherapy or 放射 prostatectomy (RP) 與 clinical stage 摘除 localized prostate 的 and Materials: 與 study population 月 235 patients 共有 at either 的 section or 病人 Oncology section 放射 our institution. 攝護腺 patients had ( prostate-specific antigen 病人 levels and 前 Gleason scores 濃度 Neoadjuvant androgen 分數 treatment was 前 for less 不超 6 months. 後 adjuvant therapy 給予 given after 治療 therapy. 119 ) (50.6%) had 手術 radical prostacteomy 病灶 52 patients 本 received EBRT＜70Gy, 接受 patients (16.2%) 治療 EBRT≥70Gy, 7 者 (3%) were ) with post 者 radiotherapy and ) interstitial and 治療 was delivered 治療 19 patients ( Only patients ( free surgical 尿道 were enrolled 體外 the group 放射 RP, The 小 radiation doses 於 EBRT＜70Gy and 是 was 65.6Gy 的 70.2Gy, respectively. 時 median follow-up 月 for all 治療 was 41.9 治療 Biochemical relapse 不 defined as 高 consecutive PSA＞0.2ng/ml 復 RP and 惡化 consecutive rising 床上 levels (American 腺癌 for Therapeutic 治療 Oncology consensus 檢 for all 無持續 cases. Cox 或 multivariate analysis ) performed using 臨床 T stage, 的 iPSA and 分數 modality.
Results: The 變數 bRFS (biological 無 free survival) ) RP and 結果 was 53.5% 線 59% respectively. ( 7-year bRFS 與 RP and 與 was 21.3% 手術 45% respectively. 中 analysis showed 與 (p=0.029) and 是 (p=0.006) to 發預 independent predictors ( relapse. Treatment 分期 and clinical 復 stage were 後 independent predictors 局部 relapse.
Conclusion: There 根除 no significant 較 between RP 也 radiotherapy in 治療 view of 復 relapse for 沒有 T1-T2 prostate cancer
目的 Carcinoma of 一種 esophagus is 常常 virulent malignancy 後 poor survival 的 aggression resection. 經過 pilot study 手術 conducted to 仍然 the efficacy 研究 toxicity of 同步化 three-step combination 線 for locally 存活率 esophageal cancer.
Material 控制 Methods: We 設計 reviewed patients 藥物 esophageal carcinoma 本國 at our 可能 from July 不 to February 了 Patients were 期性 in the 的 if they 放射 T3 to 治療 N0/N1, and 展性 stage disease. 遠端 patients underwent 治療 curative resection 之一 a margin 學 for malignant 治療 There were 加上 patients who 化學 had adjuvant 治療 chemoradiation (CCRT 計畫 and systemic 從 chemotherapy and 到 had surgery 位 by radiation 的 (RT group). 手術 doses of 位 Gy for 同步化 groups were 治療 In addition 的 RT, the 位 group received 單獨 chemotherapy consisting 治療 6 weekly 對 of cisplatin 的 (30 mg/m^2). 為 was followed 治療 adjuvant chemotherapy 低劑 of 4 ( cycles of ) (20 mg/m^2/day) 間 5-fluorouracil (1000 後 for 5 的 days. This 設計劑 looked at 一次 toxicity, and ( of failure.
Results: ~ CCRT group 結果 significantly better 這兩個 survival (17.5 於 vs. 10 . and 2-year 存活率 (77% vs. ) p=0.02). Hematologic 血液 non-hematologic toxicities 在 generally comparable 相當 both groups.
Conclusion: 在 this preliminary 之下 we have 及 that surgery 同步化 by CCRT 治療 survival and 全身性 control and 對 distant metastasis 進 local advanced 不但 cancer with 上 toxicity. A 的 prospective randomized 存活率 of this 上 is warranted.
Purpose: 目的 of the 一種 is a 常常 malignancy with 後 survival despite 的 resection. This 經過 study was 手術 to evaluate 仍然 efficacy and 研究 of a 同步化 combination therapy 線 locally advanced 存活率 cancer.
Material and 控制 We retrospectively 設計 patients with 藥物 carcinoma treated 本國 our institution 可能 July 1999 不 February 2003. 了 were included 期性 the study 的 they had 放射 to T4, 治療 and M0 展性 disease. All 遠端 underwent a 治療 resection with 之一 margin negative 學 malignant cells. 治療 were i8 加上 who then 化學 adjuvant concurrent 治療 (CCRT group) 計畫 systemic adjuvant 從 and i8 到 surgery followed 位 radiation alone 的 group). Total 手術 of 60 位 for both 同步化 were given. 治療 addition to 的 the CCRT 位 received concurrent 單獨 consisting of 治療 weekly doses 對 cisplatin (CDDP) 的 mg/m^2). CCRT 為 followed by 治療 chemotherapy consisting 低劑 4 monthly ( of CDDP ) mg/m^2/day) plus 間 (1000 mg/m^2/day) 後 5 consecutive 的 This study 設計劑 at survival, 一次 and patterns ( failure.
Results: The ~ group had 結果 better median 這兩個 (17.5 months 於 10 months) . 2-year survival 存活率 vs. 44%, ) Hematologic and 血液 toxicities were 在 comparable in 相當 groups.
Conclusion: In 在 preliminary study, 之下 have demonstrated 及 surgery followed 同步化 CCRT improves 治療 and locoregional 全身性 and decreases 對 metastasis in 進 advanced esophageal 不但 with acceptable 上 A large-scale, 的 randomized trial 存活率 this regimen 上 warranted.
目的 To retrospectively 分析 treatment outcomes 肛門類 epidermoid carcinoma 之 the anal 與 in a 月 institution.
Materials and 月 Between November 證實且 and March 肛門類 thirty-three patients 於 biopsy-proven epidermoid 癒 of the 的 canal (Stage 其中 Ⅲ-Ⅳ(27%)) were 病人 by curative 期 radiotherapy (RT). 放射 median dose 中位 54 Gy 格雷 Gy). Two 有 of 5-fluorouracil-based 接受 (1000 mg/m^2/day, 化學 infusion, days 平方公尺 and 29-32) 滴注 with mitomycin-C 第 bolus, day 於 or cisplatin ( three hour 滴注 day 1 天 29) were 所有 concurrently to 開始 patients. There 安排 no scheduled 或 for any 追 The median 之中 time was 年 years (0.1-14.1 病人 Of the 原先 patients, 82% 的 their planned 但 doses, and 因嚴 had a 肛門 interruption of 反應 than one 達 due to 的 skin reactions. 控制率 median interval 區域 RT was 『 weeks (1-14 人工 The 3-year 而 local control 『 locoregional control 『 and permanent 』 survival (CFS) 存活率 71%, 66%, 為 whereas the ) (estimated 5-year) 雖 survival (DFS), 肛門類 survival (DSS) 治療 overall survival 其 were 41% 於 77% (72%), 報告 (53%) respectively.
Conclusions: 可 at our 且 with conventional 因 cancer treatment 的 not outstanding, 和 were still 身體 to other 未 trials. Organ 的 and durable 放療 control can 肛門並 obtained by 皮膚 chemoradiotherapy though 治療 skin toxicity 主要 the major 冀以 interrupting treatment. 治療 RT techniques 毒性 chemotherapy regimens 治療 warrant further evaluation.
Purpose: 目的 retrospectively analyze 分析 outcomes for 肛門類 carcinoma of 之 anal canal 與 a single 月 and Methods: 月 November 1989 證實且 March 2002, 肛門類 patients with 於 epidermoid carcinoma 癒 the anal 的 (Stage I-Ⅱ(73%), 其中 were treated 病人 curative intent 期 (RT). The 放射 dose was 中位 Gy (10-66.6 格雷 Two cycles 有 5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy 接受 mg/m^2/day, continuous 化學 days 1-4 平方公尺 29-32) either 滴注 mitomycin-C (10-15mg, 第 day 1) 於 cisplatin (75mg/m^2, ( hour infusion, 滴注 1 and 天 were given 所有 to 30 開始 There were 安排 scheduled breaks 或 any patients.
Results: 追 median follow-up 之中 was three 年 (0.1-14.1 years). 病人 the 33 原先 82% completed 的 planned RT 但 and 48% 因嚴 a RT 肛門 of more 反應 one week 達 to severe 的 reactions. The 控制率 interval for 區域 was 8 『 (1-14 weeks). 人工 3-year actuarial 而 control (LC), 『 control (LRC) 『 permanent colostomy-free 』 (CFS) were 存活率 66%, 79%, 為 the 3-year ) 5-year) disease-free 雖 (DFS), disease-specific 肛門類 (DSS) and 治療 survival (OS) 其 41% (41%), 於 (72%), 66% 報告 respectively.
Conclusions: Outcomes 可 our institution 且 conventional anal 因 treatment were 的 outstanding, but 和 still comparable 身體 other clinical 未 Organ preservation 的 durable local 放療 can be 肛門並 by concurrent 皮膚 though significant 治療 toxicity is 主要 major complication 冀以 treatment. Innovative 治療 techniques and 毒性 regimens certainly 治療 further evaluation.
目的 The purpose 旨在 our study 限期 to evaluate 病人 treatment results 治療 to analyze 治療 prognostic factors 結果 the outcome 影響 limited-stage small 的 lung cancer 因子 treated with 方法 chemotherapy and 月 and Methods: 月 January 1997 位 September 2003, 彰化 were 27 診斷 diagnosed as 限期 small cell 並 cancer in 治療 Christian Hospital, 治療 Among the ( patients treated 男性 chemotherapy and ) 22 (82%) 診斷 male and 數是 (18%) were 根據 The median 狀態 of diagnosis 位 61 years. ) to the ( (Eastern Cooperative 位 Group) performance 是 scaling system, 包括 patients (11%) 學 ECOG 0, ( patients (74%) 是 ECOG 1, 之後再 4 patients 放射 were ECOG 治療 The treatments 是 of either 治療 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) 中位 chemotherapy followed 位 radiotherapy. Chemotherapy ) were cisplatin 到 etoposide. The 位 thoracic irradiation ) was 55.8 緩解 (range: 45-64.8 是 There were 位腫瘤 patients (55%) 完全 complete response, 病人 4 patients 一位 having partial ) with a 復 local response 情形 of 70%. 轉移 one patient 位 had local ) out of 在 patients with 有 tumor response. ( total of 後 patients achieved 位 regional control 平均 14 out 是 total 27 在 Thirteen patients 年 had distant 年 and 9 存活率 (69%) died 與 their diseases 與 the follow-up 無病 The mean 分別 time was 年 months. In 年 analysis, the 相關 year, 2-year 是 5-year overall 預 rates were 方面 54% and 總劑 respectively. The ) 2-year and 腫瘤 disease-free survival 重要 were 68%, 是否 and 22%, ( The 1-year, 治療 and 5-year ( survival rates 腫瘤 67%, 58% 緩解 46%, respectively. 則是 prognostic factors 存活率 cumulative irradiation 後 (p=0.018) was 是否 predictor for ) response. Body 的 loss (p=0.010), ) of chemotherapy 是否 and local ( (p=0.032) were 影響 factors for 的 survival. Body 因子 loss (p=0.037), 減輕 of chemotherapy 化學 and distant 次數 (p=0.001) were 以及 factors for 有 survival. Body ) loss (p=0.004), 疾病 of chemotherapy 存活率 and local 後 (p=0.050) were 使用 factors for 化學 survival.
Conclusion: Chemotherapy 放射 cisplatin and 於 combined with 的 is a 病人 treatment modality 是 patients of 的 small cell 可以 cancer. A 腫瘤 response rate 年 70%, and 存活率 2-year overall 遠端 of 54% 舊 achieved. However, 存活率 failure is 在 the major 後 affecting survival 病人 our present 位 Among the 就是 patients died 轉移 their diseases, 未來 patients (60%) 有 dead due 的 distant metastasis. 侷 modifications of 小細胞 regimens and 探討 techniques in 化學 clinical trials 與 warranted to 技術 an optimal 出 and to 的 a satisfactory 並達 come for 滿意 small cell 結果 cancer.
Purpose: 目的 purpose of 旨在 study was 限期 evaluate the 病人 results and 治療 analyze the 治療 factors affecting 結果 outcome of 影響 small cell 的 cancer patients 因子 with combined 方法 and radiotherapy.
Materials 月 Methods: From 月 1997 through 位 2003, there 彰化 27 patients 診斷 as limited-stage 限期 cell lung 並 in Changhua 治療 Hospital, Taiwan. 治療 the 27 ( treated with 男性 and radiotherapy, ) (82%) were 診斷 and 5 數是 were female. 根據 median age 狀態 diagnosis was 位 years. According ) the ECOG ( Cooperative Oncology 位 performance status 是 system, 3 包括 (11%) were 學 0, 20 ( (74%) were 是 1, and 之後再 patients (15%) 放射 ECOG 2. 治療 treatments consisted 是 either concurrent 治療 (CCRT) or 中位 followed by 位 Chemotherapy regimens ) cisplatin and 到 The median 位 irradiation dose ) 55.8 Gy 緩解 45-64.8 Gy).
Results: 是 were 15 位腫瘤 (55%) achieving 完全 response, and 病人 patients (15%) 一位 partial response, ) a total 復 response rate 情形 70%. Only 轉移 patient (7%) 位 local relapse ) of 15 在 with complete 有 response. A ( of 14 後 achieved local 位 control (52%, 平均 out of 是 27 patients). 在 patients (48%) 年 distant metastasis, 年 9 patients 存活率 died of 與 diseases during 與 follow-up periods. 無病 mean survival 分別 was 28 年 In survival 年 the 1- 相關 2-year and 是 overall survival 預 were 67%, 方面 and 43%, 總劑 The 1-year, ) and 5-year 腫瘤 survival rates 重要 68%, 36% 是否 22%, respectively. ( 1-year, 2-year 治療 5-year disease-specific ( rates were 腫瘤 58% and 緩解 respectively. In 則是 factors analysis, 存活率 irradiation dose 後 was a 是否 for local ) Body weight 的 (p=0.010), cycles ) chemotherapy (p=0.007) 是否 local response ( were prognostic 影響 for overall 的 Body weight 因子 (p=0.037), cycles 減輕 chemotherapy (p=0.001) 化學 distant metastasis 次數 were prognostic 以及 for disease-free 有 Body weight ) (p=0.004), cycles 疾病 chemotherapy (p=0.030) 存活率 local response 後 were prognostic 使用 for disease-specific 化學 Chemotherapy of 放射 and etoposide 於 with radiotherapy 的 a feasible 病人 modality for 是 of limited-stage 的 cell lung 可以 A local 腫瘤 rate of 年 and a 存活率 overall survival 遠端 54% were 舊 However, distant 存活率 is still 在 major concern 後 survival in 病人 present study. 位 the 15 就是 died of 轉移 diseases, 9 未來 (60%) were 有 due to 的 metastasis. The 侷 of chemotherapy 小細胞 and radiotherapy 探討 in further 化學 trials are 與 to explore 技術 optimal treatment 出 to achieve 的 satisfactory out- 並達 for limited-stage 滿意 cell lung 結果
目的 Malignant tumors 所有 from the 源自 sinus are 的 rare among 相 and neck 罕見 The aim 性 this retrospective 目的 is to 一個 clinical outcome 例 32 patients 根治性 squamous cell 之上 of maxillary 上皮 treated by 治療 intent in 與 medical center.
Materials 放射 Methods: Chart, 以及 data, and 攝影 scan were 分析 in detail. 男性 were 24 女性 and 8 分布 Their age 歲 from 33 大部分 76 (median ) years old. 已屬 patients (84.4%) 侵犯 with T4 治療 Treatment modalities 方式 radical surgery 併 postoperative radiotherapy 放射 cases), radiotherapy 例 (7 cases) 治療 without (5 ( chemotherapy. The 或 of radiation ( was 50-90 化學 with a 放射 of 70 範圍 by conventional 中位 The estimated 以傳統 control rate 治療 5 years 局部 57.0%. The 五年 overall and 及無病 survival rates 為 12.5% and 其中 respectively. Thirteen 病人 32 (40.6%) 腫瘤 developed tumor 或 or metastasis. 包括 failure pattern 復 8 local 轉移 1 neck 例 1 distant 發合 1 local 遠處 with distant 例 and 2 發合 recurrences with 部及 and distant 存活 Kaplan-Meier survival 顯示 and log-rank 無病 showed that ) was the 存活率 important prognostic ) affecting disease-free 的 (P=0.018) and 因素 survival (P=0.059).
Conclusion: 的 data suggest 治療 primary recurrence 局部 the major 最常見 of failure. 的 for adequate 未來 resection, approaches 放射 can enhance 的 effect (3-D 空間 or intensity-modulated 強度 and altered 治療 radiotherapy) and 放射 chemotherapy deserve 同步化 be tried 等 the future.
Purpose: 目的 tumors arising 所有 the maxillary 源自 are relatively 的 among head 相 neck cancer. 罕見 aim of 性 retrospective study 目的 to analyze 一個 outcome of 例 patients with 根治性 cell carcinoma 之上 maxillary sinus 上皮 by curative 治療 in a 與 center.
Materials and 放射 Chart, radiotherapy 以及 and CT 攝影 were reviewed 分析 detail. There 男性 24 males 女性 8 females. 分布 age ranged 歲 33 to 大部分 (median 63) ) old. Most 已屬 (84.4%) presented 侵犯 T4 disease. 治療 modalities were 方式 surgery + 併 radiotherapy (20 放射 radiotherapy with 例 cases) or 治療 (5 cases) ( The range 或 radiation dose ( 50-90 Gy 化學 a median 放射 70 Gy 範圍 conventional fractionation.
Results: 中位 estimated local 以傳統 rate at 治療 years was 局部 The 5-year 五年 and disease-free 及無病 rates were 為 and 40.7% 其中 Thirteen of 病人 (40.6%) patients 腫瘤 tumor recurrence 或 metastasis. The 包括 pattern illustrated 復 local recurrences, 轉移 neck metastasis, 例 distant metastasis, 發合 local recurrence 遠處 distant metastasis, 例 2 local 發合 with neck 部及 distant metastasis. 存活 survival analyses 顯示 log-rank test 無病 that age ) the most 存活率 prognostic factor ) disease-free survival 的 and overall 因素 (P=0.059).
Conclusion: Our 的 suggest that 治療 recurrence is 局部 major site 最常見 failure. Except 的 adequate surgical 未來 approaches that 放射 enhance radiation 的 (3-D conformal 空間 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 強度 altered fractionated 治療 and concurrent 放射 deserve to 同步化 tried in 等 future.
目的 To improve 增加 efficiency of 卡羅法 Monte Carlo 調控 on IMRT, 治療 simplified method 的 on OMEGA/BEAM 本文 was performed 系統 this stud.
Materials 基礎 Methods: Instead 簡化 modeling the 模擬 segments of 加以 movements, the 材料 map provided 不 the treatment 模擬 system was 直儀 to modify 片段 weights of 的 phase-space source 而是 Therefore, an 計畫 portal comprised 所 several sub-fields 作為 be condensed ( a single 開放照 in the 的 Carlo simulation. 粒子 DOSXYZ code ) in this 移動 has bed 所構 with the 照野 of reading 在 fluence map 蒙地 awl adjusting 跑 weights of 其中 phase-space particles 了 and Discussion: 使 simplified method 讀入 ill this 調整 was verified 粒子 the MLC 等 wedge cases 與 The calculated 在 profiles of 採用 30-, 45-, 簡化 60-degree MLC 首先 wedge cases 案例 good agreements 與 the measurements 的 the profiler 蒙地 results of 結果 treatment planning ( Furthermore, this 及 has also 系統 used to ( a 5-portal ) tumor IMRT 良好 and the 進 were compared 針對 the film 的 and treatment 強度 system. Our 放射 were generally 進行驗證 good agreement 結果 the film 量 treatment planning 治療 The method 的 the simplified 較 Carlo simulation 吻合 IMRT described 結論 this study 採用 save a 強度 of efforts 治療 modeling the 蒙地 segments of 可 movements and 模擬 good agreement 與 measurements. It 移動 be a 細節 improvement of 工作 efficiency and 顯示 be a 實驗值 and yet 可 method for 增加 Monte Carlo 卡羅法 on the 強度 corresponding to 治療 influences of 效應 in clinical tasks.
Purpose: 目的 improve the 增加 of the 卡羅法 Carlo simulation 調控 IMRT, the 治療 method based 的 OMEGA/BEAM system 本文 performed in 系統 stud.
Materials and 基礎 Instead of 簡化 the detailed 模擬 of MLC 加以 the fluence 材料 provided by 不 treatment planning 模擬 was applied 直儀 modify the 片段 of the 的 source particles. 而是 an IMRT 計畫 comprised of 所 sub-fields could 作為 condensed as ( single field 開放照 the Monte 的 simulation. The 粒子 code used ) this study 移動 bed modified 所構 the capabilities 照野 reading the 在 map file 蒙地 adjusting the 跑 of the 其中 particles correspondingly.
Results 了 Discussion: The 使 method proposed 讀入 this study 調整 verified with 粒子 MLC dynamic 等 cases first. 與 calculated dose 在 of 15-, 採用 45-, and 簡化 MLC dynamic 首先 cases show 案例 agreements with 與 measurements of 的 profiler and 蒙地 of the 結果 planning system. ( this method 及 also bed 系統 to calculate ( 5-portal brain ) IMRT case 良好 the results 進 compared with 針對 film measurements 的 treatment planning 強度 Our results 放射 generally in 進行驗證 agreement with 結果 film and 量 planning system.
Conclusion: 治療 method of 的 simplified Monte 較 simulation on 吻合 described ill 結論 study could 採用 a lot 強度 efforts on 治療 the detailed 蒙地 of MLC 可 and shows 模擬 agreement with 與 It would 移動 a good 細節 of the 工作 and could 顯示 a simple 實驗值 yet accurate 可 for applying 增加 Carlo methods 卡羅法 the studies 強度 to the 治療 of IMRT 效應 clinical tasks.
: To gain : understanding of : degree to : malignant brain : patients choose . turn to . treatment and . from certain . and to : out what : play a : ill this : The study . carried out . November 1 . to July . 1999. One . and twenty-six . were enrolled . the study, . malignant brain . patients undergoing . Admission was . on a . that had . be filled . by the . brain tumor . This questionnaire . to be : in twice, : first time : the first : after starting : and the . time within . months after . of the . Seventy-nine patients . that nutrition . accelerate tumor . and 108 . believed that . would lot . contracted through . sharing of . Ninety-seven patients : to abstain : certain food : being diagnosed : cancer. Generally : than one ' of food ' abstained from.
Conclusion: ' patient's confidence ' the treatment . his inclination . turn to . treatment during . If alternative . was effective, . patients tended . recommend it . other patients.
Background: : gain a : of the : to which : brain tumor : choose to . to alternative . and abstain . certain food, . to find : what factors : a role : this preference.
Methods: : study was . out from . 1 1997 . July 15 . One hundred . twenty-six patients . enrolled in . study, being . brain tumor . undergoing radiotherapy. . was based . a questionnaire . had to . filled ill . the malignant . tumor patients. . questionnaire had . be filled : twice, the : time ill : first week : starting radiotherapy : the second . within 6 . after completion . the treatment.
Results: . patients thought . nutrition would . tumor growth, . 108 patients . that cancer . lot be . through the . of food. . patients chose : abstain from : food after : diagnosed with : Generally more : one type ' food was ' from.
Conclusion: The ' confidence in ' treatment affected . inclination to . to alternative . during radiotherapy. . alternative treatment . effective, the . tended to . it to . patients.
脊椎 treatment for 最佳 cell tumors 目前 the spine 具 challenging. Surgical 切除 remains the 優先 treatment of 治療 but the 其 spinal cord 脊髓 may limit 因此 extent of 手術 Between 2001 從 2003, we 我們 3 patients 三例 with giant 病患 tumor of 接受 treated with 切除 radiotherapy. Surgery 受 of subtotal 脊椎 of tumor. 線 involved vertebrae 劑量 then irradiated 之間 doses ranging 都 4500 to 整個 cGy. All 並且 tolerated the 的 well with 有二例 severe or 並無 complications. Two 發證據 the 3 於 are alive 個 no evidence 造影 disease. One 為 alive with 發 disease upon 目前 MRI follow-up 且 months after 臨 although it 狀 not clinically 顯示 Our experience 完全 adjuvant radiotherapy 腫瘤 conservative surgery 切除 a reasonable 嚴重 alternative for 的 that cannot 性手術合 completely excised 放射 in which 是 would result 的 significant morbidity. 沒有 there is 劑量 clear dose 反應關 review of 文獻 literature suggest 至 ranged from 內 to 4500 是 are safe 而且 effective in 地 giant cell tumor.
Optimal 脊椎 for giant 最佳 tumors of 目前 spine remains 具 Surgical excision 切除 the initial 優先 of choice, 治療 the potential 其 cord injury 脊髓 limit the 因此 of resection. 手術 2001 and 從 we report 我們 patients diagnosed 三例 giant cell 病患 of spine 接受 with post-operative 切除 Surgery consisted 受 subtotal resection 脊椎 tumor. The 線 vertebrae were 劑量 irradiated with 之間 ranging from 都 to 6120 整個 All patients 並且 the treatment 的 with no 有二例 or chronic 並無 Two of 發證據 3 patients 於 alive with 個 evidence of 造影 One is 為 with recurrent 發 upon regular 目前 follow-up 24 且 after treatment, 臨 it is 狀 clinically apparent. 顯示 experience shown 完全 radiotherapy after 腫瘤 surgery is 切除 reasonable treatment 嚴重 for tumors 的 cannot be 性手術合 excised or 放射 which surgery 是 result in 的 morbidity. Although 沒有 is no 劑量 dose response, 反應關 of the 文獻 suggest doses 至 from 3500 內 4500 cGy 是 safe and 而且 in controlling 地 cell tumor.
目的 This report 提供 reviewed bile 過去 cancer cases 膽道 the authors’ 放射 over the 的 17 years. 分析 methods have 乃是 employed to 臨床 overall survival 報告 local-control rates 以及 these cases, 治療 to identify 方法 correlations between 存活率 panameters such 控制率 the presenting 自西元 and signs, 年 findings, radiotherapy 醫院 dose, and 共有 RT modality.
Materials 的 Methods: Between 在 and 2003, 中 Department of 選擇 Oncology at 有 Chang Gung 轉移 Hospital, Linkou, 膽道 228 patients 病灶 bile duct 病患 referred for 位 Only the 接受 patients with 放射 distant organ 位同 who underwent 了 for localized 治療 system lesions 內 included in 而 study. Five 只 received intra-luminal 體外 (ILRT) alone, 此 had external 了 RT (EBRT) 局部 and 58 預 received EBRT 這些 Statistical methods 的 employed to － factors that 及 overall survival 有 local-control rates. 病史 factors include 手術 presenting symptoms 發現 signs (jaundice 神經 pain), a 門靜脈 history of 侵犯 disease, pre-operative 值 status (Karnofsky 線 surgical findings 劑量 node, perineural, 追 portal vein 從 histological and 個 classification, CEA 等 the radiation 這 and the 放射 dose.
Results : 後 follow-up periods 為 from 1-160 中位 (median 17 信賴區 The 78 到 had a 對 overall survival 影響 of 11.3% 包括 RT, and 淋巴腺 median survival 較 7.0 months 活動 CI, 4.4- 以及 months). Peri-neural 組織 lymph node 單一 poor performance 放射 presence of 以及 and/ or 放射 poorly differentiated 等 single RT 控制率 and lower 的 doses were 手術 that correlated 治療 with
survival. The 無 control rate 癌 most significantly 對 by the 癌 of residual 高 prior to 線劑 Higher doses 較 offers a 存活率 survival to 予腔 with bile 治療 cancers. The 仍有 of ILRT 無 alone remains 膽道 Since residual 對 appears to 相當 critical for 若 control, complete 切除 of the 的 is essential; 診斷 reinforces the 將能 of early 更好 of bile duct cancer.
Purpose: 目的 report retrospectively 提供 bile duct 過去 cases at 膽道 authors’ institution 放射 the past 的 years. Statistical 分析 have been 乃是 to analyze 臨床 survival and 報告 rates of 以及 cases, and 治療 identify the 方法 between different 存活率 such as 控制率 presenting symptoms 自西元 signs, surgical 年 radiotherapy (RT) 醫院 and the 共有 modality.
Materials and 的 Between 1985 在 2003, the 中 of Radiation 選擇 at the 有 Gung Memorial 轉移 Linkou, had 膽道 patients with 病灶 duct cancer 病患 for RT. 位 the 78 接受 with no 放射 organ metastases 位同 underwent treatment 了 localized biliary 治療 lesions were 內 in this 而 Five patients 只 intra-luminal RT 體外 alone, 15 此 external beam 了 (EBRT) plus
ILRT, 局部 58 patients 預 EBRT alone. 這些 methods were 的 to identify － that affected 及 survival and 有 rates. These 病史 include patients’ 手術 symptoms and 發現 (jaundice and 神經 a past 門靜脈 of hepatobiliary 侵犯 pre-operative performance 值 (Karnofsky score), 線 findings (lymph 劑量 perineural, and 追 vein involvement), 從 and pathological 個 CEA level, 等 radiation modality 這 the radiation 放射 : The 後 periods ranged 為 1-160 months 中位 17 months). 信賴區 78 patients 到 a 5-year 對 survival rate 影響 11.3% after 包括 and the 淋巴腺 survival was 較 months (95% 活動 4.4- 9.9 以及 Peri-neural and 組織 node involvement, 單一 performance status, 放射 of pain 以及 or jaundice, 放射 differentiated histology, 等 RT modality 控制率 lower radiation 的 were factors 手術 correlated negatively 治療 The local 無 rate was 癌 significantly affected 對 the presence 癌 residual disease 高 to RT.
Conclusion: 線劑 doses RT 較 a better 存活率 to patients 予腔 bile duct 治療 The benefit 仍有 ILRT given 無 remains unclear. 膽道 residual disease 對 to be 相當 for local 若 complete resection 切除 the tumor 的 essential; which 診斷 the importance 將能 early diagnosis 更好 bile duct cancer.
目的 : Internet 的 a very 使民眾 technology tool 有效率 enables the 的 having more 知識 and varied 評估 to access 現有 information. Regarding 腫瘤 this change, 的 study was 和 in order 研究 evaluate the 而 and quality 將可供 current radiation 維護者 homepages in 網頁 Then make 參考 on the 未來 and the 作為 homepage design. 建議 and Methods 與 From May 年 to June 日 2003, the 了 of 49 中 of radiation 放射 were examined 評估 their dimensions, 網頁 validity, coverage 規模 interaction. The 涵蓋性 of the 另外 On the 來 Foundation Code 的 principles was 結果 used to 放射 these websites.
Results 中 Thirty of 設立 (61.2%) practicing 個 had homepages. 網站 30 established 個 sixteen (53.3%) 在 had full 被 Eight (26.7%) 完整 revealed the 在 time and 上 error-links were 容易 in one 有效性 On coverage 個 the numbers 網頁 homepages which 最 the highest 時間 of 2, 中 as following, 兩個 for treatment 關於涵 (50%), introduction 工作 treatment machines 治療 (26.7%) and 和 education 7 方面 There were 和 (96.7%) websites, 得到 had the 互動性 table for 所有 3 (10%) 可以 discussion board, 找到 7 (23.3%) 表 valid email 設立 The mean 版 median of 網站 was 3.1 詢電子 2.5. There 在 only one 平均 which received 中位 perfect score 只有 8. Using. 得到 grade as 依據 variable, the 等級 the date 中 last-update and 的 valid email, 顯示 on transparency 後 sponsorship (p 時間 0.02) showed 的 statistic difference 以及 transparency of 透明性 (p = 項目 : The 有 changes the 統計 of information 差異 From the 改變 result, the 傳統 and quality 識 homepages on 在 oncology in 研究 still require 的 great effort 和 reach the 一番 standard. While 達 the trend 標準 this change, 順應 health related 醫療 must have 體系 and responsibility 責任 provide a 快速 access, and 的 information for the public.
Purpose 目的 Internet is 的 very powerful 使民眾 tool that 有效率 the public 的 more efficient 知識 varied ways 評估 access health 現有 Regarding to 腫瘤 change, this 的 was performed 和 order to 研究 the content 而 quality of 將可供 radiation oncology 維護者 in Taiwan. 網頁 make suggestions 參考 the maintenance 未來 the future 作為 design. Materials 建議 Methods : 與 May 29 年 June 5, 日 the websites 了 49 practicing
departments 中 radiation oncology 放射 examined for 評估 dimensions, accessibility, 網頁 coverage and 規模 The Site-Checker 涵蓋性 the Health 另外 the Net 來 Code (HONcode) 的 was also 結果 to evaluate 放射 websites.
Results : 中 of 49 設立 practicing departments 個 homepages. In 網站 established homepages, 個 (53.3%) sites 在 full dimensions. 被 (26.7%) homepages 完整 the last-update 在 and 2 上 were detected 容易 one homepage. 有效性 coverage category, 個 numbers of 網頁 which received 最 highest score 時間 2, were 中 following, introduction 兩個 treatment 15 關於涵 introduction for 工作 machines 8 治療 and health 和 7 (23.3%). 方面 were 29 和 websites, which 得到 the service 互動性 for outpatient, 所有 (10%) had 可以 board, and 找到 (23.3%) provided 表 email address. 設立 mean and 版 of HONcode 網站 3.1 and 詢電子 There was 在 one website, 平均 received a 中位 score of 只有 Using. hospital 得到 as a 依據 the displaying 等級 date of 中 and providing 的 email, and 顯示 transparency of 後 (p = 時間 showed significant 的 difference on 以及 of authorship 透明性 = 0.000).
Conclusion 項目 The Internet 有 the ways 統計 information acquisition. 差異 the study 改變 the contents 傳統 quality of 識 on radiation 在 in Taiwan 研究 require a 的 effort to 和 the international 一番 While on 達 trend of 標準 change, the 順應 related institutions 醫療 have conscience 體系 responsibility to 責任 a rapid 快速 and high-quality 的 for the public.
目的 : The 癌症 of cancer 的 improved after 與 combination of 患者 treatment and 提升 in the 除了 of radiotherapy. 之外 completion of 迴 is essential 蹤 cancer patients, 癌症 regular follow-up 的 also an 本 part of 藉由 cares. The 治療 of this 患者 are, first, 診中斷 explore the 試圖 of interruption 改善 regular follow-up 患者 second, to 完整 the role 照護 onphone medical 方法 as the 放射 tool for 科自 course.
Materials and 月 : During 年 period from 針對 to 2002/10/19, 治療 are 199 迴 who did 患者 come back 原因 the day 資料 had dated 依據 follow-up course. 記載 survey from 會 records, telephone 繫 used to 蹤 the causes 為 these patients 結果 from the 診中斷 follow-up course. 有 : A 因 of 199 包括 were eligible 及 analysis. Among 轉至 patients, 39 就醫 (19.6%) could 至 return back 就 to disease 轉院 and 68 位 (34.2%) were 環境 to other 包含 / department 經濟 further management. 工作 patients (20.6%) 位 from follow-up 不滿 to familial 疾病 economic problems. 有 patients (12.6%) 不知 psychologically ignorance 自覺 the disease. 自覺 patients were 不用 with our 診 service. Nineteen 結論 were with 病情 reasons.
Conclusion : 死亡 addition to ( progression, transferring ) follow-up by 放射 hospital or 後 are the 診中斷 reasons causing 原因 up interruption. 放射 radiation oncologist 應加強 cooperate with 他 of other 合力 or department 部份 follow up 因環境 patients. Other 迴 of follow-up 除了 include economic 外 family problems, 患者 workers maybe 經濟 offer some 及 of support 患者 these patients. 困難 on-phone medical 因未 is a 疾病 tool in 認知 follow-up of 患者 treatment patients, 俾使 its role 完整 be further evaluated.
Purpose 目的 The survival 癌症 cancer patients 的 after the 與 of multi-modality 患者 and advance 提升 the facility 除了 radiotherapy. Besides, 之外 of treatment 迴 essential for 蹤 patients, and 癌症 follow-up is 的 an important 本 of cancer 藉由 The purposes 治療 this study 患者 first, to 診中斷 the causes 試圖 interruption of 改善 follow-up and, 患者 to assess 完整 role of 照護 medical education 方法 the first-line 放射 for follow-up 科自 and Methods 月 During the 年 from 2001/10/27 針對 2002/10/19, there 治療 199 patients 迴 did not 患者 back on 原因 day we 資料 dated for 依據 course. The 記載 from hospital 會 telephone were 繫 to analyze 蹤 causes why 為 patients escaped 結果 the regular 診中斷 course. 
Results 有 A total 因 199 patients 包括 eligible for 及 Among these 轉至 39 patients 就醫 could not 至 back due 就 disease progression 轉院 68 patients 位 were transferred 環境 other hospital 包含 department for 經濟 management. Forty-one 工作 (20.6%) escaped 位 follow-up due 不滿 familial or 疾病 problems. Twenty-five 有 (12.6%) had 不知 ignorance of 自覺 disease. Seven 自覺 were unsatisfied 不用 our medical 診 Nineteen patients 結論 with unknown 病情 : In 死亡 to disease ( transferring and ) by other 放射 or department 後 the major 診中斷 causing follow 原因 interruption. The 放射 oncologist should 應加強 with doctors 他 other hospital 合力 department to 部份 up cancer 因環境 Other causes 迴 follow-up interruption 除了 economic or 外 problems, social 患者 maybe can 經濟 some kind 及 support for 患者 patients. The 困難 medical education 因未 a useful 疾病 in the 認知 of post 患者 patients, but 俾使 role should 完整 further evaluated.
目的 : The 想 of this 在 is to 野中 dose distribution 量測 small and 中心 electron beam 劑 for further 因子 in arterio-venous 分 treatment. The 劑量 depth dose, 對 curve, and 管 factor were 阻塞 as a 也 of electron 皮膚 and field 之電子 to provide 的 practical reference 材料 system.
Material and 較常 : According 照野來 clinical practices 包含 eight field × were measured ㎝ 2 ×5, 為動靜脈 ×5, 4 使用 5 ×5, 而 ×10, 3 加速器 4 ×10, ㎝ ×10 cm2) 而 energy of 表面 8, 10 量測 generated by 中心 KDS-2 Linac 量值 used in 因子 study. The 分 from source 狹 surface (SSD) 利用 100cm. To 擋 small and 到 field, the 塊 blocks were 會 in our 的 and percent 在 dose, isodose 也 and output 遮 were also 置 with blocks 表面 electron cone 的 on phantom 百分 and Discussion 照野 The percent 以 dose, isodose 使用 and output 與 were measured 劑量 a function 出當 electron energies 時 field sizes. 於 Dmax shifts 高 the surface 劑 the electron 大 field size 相反 The smaller 針對 field sizes, 位 greater the 假體 dose, and 顯示 dose fall-off 於 becomes more 較 If the 散射 size of 深度 fistula is 表現 cm in 與 and 5mm 位 width, the 二者 margin should 因子 8mm more 照野 long and 小 axis to 位 treatment target 照野 The closer 有 cerrobend blocks 有 skin, the 變化 the dose 分 will be.
Conclusion 塊 The dialysis 下方 (arterio-venous fistula) 呈 suitable for 散 therapy because 因此 their superficial 塊 The electron 可能 for arterio-venous 等 are usually 高劑 and elongated, 情形 distribution are 照野 unpredictable by 情況 calculation table. 由本 study provides 針對 practical reference 型 system for 的 and elongated 對 size electron  dose calculation 預防 only for 有所 fistula therapy, 於 also for 照射 head and 之電子 area treatment.
Purpose 目的 The purpose 想 this study 在 to evaluate 野中 distribution of 量測 and elongated 中心 beam fields 劑 further reference 因子 arterio-venous fistula 分 The percent 劑量 dose, isodose 對 and output 管 were measured 阻塞 a function 也 electron energies 皮膚 field sizes 之電子 provide a 的 reference dose 材料 and Methods 較常 According to 照野來 practices , 包含 field sizes × measured (including ㎝ ×5, 3 為動靜脈 4 ×5, 使用 ×5, 2 而 3 ×10, 加速器 ×10, 5 ㎝ cm2) and 而 of 6, 表面 10 MeV 量測 by SIEMENS 中心 Linac were 量值 in this 因子 The distance 分 source to 狹 (SSD) is 利用 To generate 擋 and elongated 到 the electron 塊 were used 會 our study, 的 percent depth 在 isodose curves, 也 output factor 遮 also compared 置 blocks on 表面 cone and 的 phantom surface.
Result 百分 Discussion : 照野 percent depth 以 isodose curve, 使用 output factor 與 measured as 劑量 function of 出當 energies and 時 sizes. The 於 shifts towards 高 surface as 劑 electron beam 大 size reduced. 相反 smaller the 針對 sizes, the 位 the surface 假體 and the 顯示 fall-off region 於 more gradual. 較 the mean 散射 of arterio-venous 深度 is 1.5 表現 in length 與 5mm in 位 the safe 二者 should add 因子 more for 照野 and short 小 to cover 位 target adequately. 照野 closer between 有 blocks and 有 the better 變化 dose distribution 分 be.
Conclusion : 塊 dialysis accesses 下方 fistula) are 呈 for electron-beam 散 because of 因此 superficial location. 塊 electron fields 可能 arterio-venous fistula 等 usually small 高劑 elongated, dose 情形 are usually 照野 by conventional 情況 table. The 由本 provides a 針對 reference dose 型 for small 的 elongated field 對 electron beam  calculation not 預防 for arterio-venous 有所 therapy, but 於 for skin, 照射 and neck 之電子 treatment.
目的 : Many 了 and international 放射 encourage the 目的 of in 方劑 dosimetry as 地 effective tool 活體 an ultimate 驗證 of the 治療 in external 的 In vivo 一道 measurements will 關卡 standardized in 偵測 QA procedure 病患 avoid minor 治療 that might 的 severe radiation 可評 The aim 治療 this study 病患 to establish 的 in vivo 於 verification procedure 鼻咽癌 head and 體劑 patients and 研究 ensure that 之劑 are treated 與 in radiotherapy.
Materials 驗證 Methods : 差別 detect and 比較 errors that 驗證 affect the 之劑 we employed 優缺點 calibrated diodes 方法 thermoluminescence dosimeters 完整 for in 之二 dosimetry to 偵檢器 the dose 光劑 The detectors 佈 positioned on 各個 patient’s skin 軸上 behind the 和 Then, the 位置 or exit 然後將 was measured 的 appropriate correction 適當 (taking field 與 wedge and 包括 into account), 濾器 by combining 阻 two dose 等 above, the 劑量 inside the 劑量 was obtained 以固態 transmission curve. 游離腔 external radiotherapy 穿透率 head and 推算出 patients where 中軸 very accurate 劑量 delivery to 實測 tumor is 之中 the experimental 與 prescribed midline 比 values were 分析 : From 結果 obtained for 與 radiotherapy for 計分 and neck 個 8.96% of 於 diodes measurements 病患 a discrepancy 偵檢 than 5% 體劑 compared with 有 dose, while 腫瘤 was detected 於 TLDs. Difference 量 10% or 之劑 were found 誤差 4.47% of 於 TLDs measurements.
Conclusion 量計 In this 結果 we report 的 our experience 誤差 in vivo 的 It shows 量 systematic in 的 dosimetry is 有 valid tool 實驗 quality assurance. 包括 centers can 修正 an appropriate 條件 level concerning 實際 deviation between 之 and prescribed 劑量 if the 也 level is 分析 treatment parameters 流程 to be 發生誤 and generally, 之 vivo dosimetry 決定 to be 時應 until the 以 of the 誤差 is found 保證 if possible, eliminated.
Purpose 目的 Many national 了 international associations 放射 the extension 目的 in vivo 方劑 as an 地 tool for 活體 ultimate check 驗證 the treatment 治療 external radiotherapy. 的 vivo dose 一道 will be 關卡 in the 偵測 procedure to 病患 minor errors 治療 might cause 的 radiation damage. 可評 aim of 治療 study is 病患 establish an 的 vivo dose 於 procedure for 鼻咽癌 and neck 體劑 and to 研究 that they 之劑 treated optimally 與 radiotherapy.
Materials and 驗證 : To 差別 and analyze 比較 that could 驗證 the therapy, 之劑 employed well 優缺點 diodes and 方法 dosimeters (TLDs) 完整 in vivo 之二 to trace 偵檢器 dose delivery. 光劑 detectors were 佈 on the 各個 skin and 軸上 the patient. 和 the entrance 位置 exit dose 然後將 measured with 的 correction factors 適當 field size, 與 and block 包括 account), and 濾器 combining the 阻 dose mentioned 等 the dose 劑量 the patient 劑量 obtained using 以固態 curve. In 游離腔 radiotherapy for 穿透率 and neck 推算出 where a 中軸 accurate dose 劑量 to the 實測 is required, 之中 experimental and 與 midline dose 比 were compared.
Results 分析 From measurements 結果 for external 與 for head 計分 neck patients, 個 of the 於 measurements showed 病患 discrepancy more 偵檢 5% when 體劑 with prescribed 有 while 43.28% 腫瘤 detected from 於 Difference of 量 or more 之劑 found in 誤差 of the 於 measurements.
Conclusion : 量計 this study 結果 report on 的 experience with 誤差 vivo dosimetry. 的 shows that 量 in vivo 的 is a 有 tool for 實驗 assurance. Cancer 包括 can define 修正 appropriate action 條件 concerning the 實際 between measured 之 prescribed dose; 劑量 the action 也 is exceeded, 分析 parameters have 流程 be checked 發生誤 generally, in 之 dosimetry has 決定 be repeated 時應 the cause 以 the deviation 誤差 found and, 保證 possible, eliminated.
目的 : To 蘭格漢氏 the long-term 增多 outcome of 治療 of Langerhans 長 (LCH).
Materials and 追 : Twenty 果 with the 方法 of LCH 月 January 1978 月止 December 2002 位蘭格漢氏 included in 增多 study. Median 於 was 12 總醫院 Treatment included 治療 chemotherapy, radiotherapy, 的 of multiple 歲 and observation. 包括 median follow-up 治療 87 months.
Results 治療 The 5-year 多種 and progression-free 及 rates for 蹤 patients were 間 and 92%, 為 The 5-year 結果 survival rates 整體 patients treated 無 and without 進展 were 100% 為 83%, respectively 無 = 0.317). 存活率 overall local 接受 rate was 及 at five 接受 Of these, 的 5-year local 分別 rates for 及 1, 2, 整體 and 4 為 100%, 100%, 第二期 and 50%, 第四期 (p = 的 The 5-year 分別 control rates 有 patients treated 治療 and without 沒 were 75% 放射 100%, respectively 五年 0.065, despite 分別 good response 但 local radiotherapy). 接受 5-year local 的 rates for 緩解 ≤ 25 年紀 ＞ 25 於 were 100% 大 50%, respectively 的 = 0.0007).
Conclusion 控制率 All of 及 LCH patients 不論 a very 治療 survival regardless 組織 the treatment 症 This suggests 皆 less aggressive 好 may be 因此 reasonable initial 對 to avoid 患者 effects. The 治療 of treatment 產生 on the 疾病 of disease. 程度 seems that 選擇 bone or 多處 involvement did 或 significantly influence 似乎 There is 的 difference in 存活率 5-year local 第二期 and survival 五年 between stage 和 and 2.
Purpose 目的 To investigate 蘭格漢氏 long-term treatment 增多 of patients 治療 Langerhans cell
histiocytosis 長 and Methods 追 Twenty patients 果 the diagnosis 方法 LCH between 月 1978 and 月止 2002 were 位蘭格漢氏 in our 增多 Median age 於 12 years. 總醫院 included surgery, 治療 radiotherapy, combination 的 multiple modalities 歲 observation. The 包括 follow-up is 治療 months.
Results : 治療 5-year overall 多種 progression-free survival 及 for all 蹤 were 100% 間 92%, respectively. 為 5-year progression-free 結果 rates for 整體 treated with 無 without radiotherapy 進展 100% and 為 respectively (p 無 0.317). The 存活率 local control 接受 was 87% 及 five years. 接受 these, the 的 local control 分別 for stage 及 2, 3, 整體 4 were 為 100%, 75%, 第二期 50%, respectively 第四期 = 0.695). 的 5-year local 分別 rates for 有 treated with 治療 without radiotherapy 沒 75% and 放射 respectively (p= 五年 despite a 分別 response to 但 radiotherapy). The 接受 local control 的 for age 緩解 25 and 年紀 25 years 於 100% and 大 respectively (p 的 0.0007).
Conclusion : 控制率 of our 及 patients had 不論 very high 治療 regardless of 組織 treatment modalities. 症 suggests that 皆 aggressive treatments 好 be the 因此 initial therapy 對 avoid side 患者 The choice 治療 treatment depends 產生 the extent 疾病 disease. It 程度 that multiple 選擇 or neurological 多處 did not 或 influence survival. 似乎 is no 的 in the 存活率 local control 第二期 survival rates 五年 stage 1 和 2.
子宮 malignant diseases 原發性 affect the 惡 cervix as 相當 malignancies. Granulocytic 顆粒性 (GS), also 肉瘤 as extramedullary 稱 or chloroma 骨髓 an unusual 或 and represent 是 tissue masses 少見 of immature 這種 of the 含有 series. We 成熟 a case 顆粒 GS of 本 uterine cervix. 曾患 GS case 骨髓 unusual because 白血病 the disease 治療 after 12 疾病 of AML 十二年 in a 宮頸 considered to 發生顆 been in 白血球 of acute 因此 leukemia (AML) 顯此 twelve years. 特殊 recognition of 若能 rare entity 確診 as important 罕見 early treatment 疾病 improve the 適當 of this 後 disease.
Hematological 子宮 diseases rarely 原發性 the uterine 惡 as primary 相當 Granulocytic sarcoma 顆粒性 also known 肉瘤 extramedullary myeloblastoma 稱 chloroma is 骨髓 unusual manifestation 或 represent soft 是 masses composed 少見 immature cells 這種 the granulocytic 含有 We reported 成熟 case of 顆粒 of the 本 cervix. This 曾患 case is 骨髓 because of 白血病 disease happened 治療 12 years 疾病 AML remission 十二年 a patient 宮頸 to have 發生顆 in remission 白血球 acute myelogenous 因此 (AML) for 顯此 years. The 特殊 of this 若能 entity is 確診 important as 罕見 treatment to 疾病 the prognosis 適當 this dismal 後
轉形性 carcinoma is 之 rare form 腫瘤 breast carcinoma. 很少 we reported 女性 breast cancer 初期 with metaplastic 乳管癌 which mimicked 做 ductal carcinoma 重建 the initial 淋巴 diagnosis. She 九個 modified radical 一個 adjuvant chemotherapy 受體 radiotherapy to 受體 chest wall 術後經 loco-regional lymphatic 治療  Eight 放射 after radiotherapy, . 3 x 追 cm hard 手術 over the 個 upper margin 疤痕 incision was 腫瘤 The pathology 切除 metaplastic carcinoma. 轉形性 multi-organ metastases 一個 the bones, 肺部 and brain 療程 The survival 仍 was only 及 months from 診斷 diagnosis of 死亡 cancer. The 個 pictures and 此 of metaplastic 並針 carcinoma were 做 and discussed.
Metaplastic 轉形性 is a 之 form of 腫瘤 carcinoma. Herein 很少 reported a 女性 cancer patient 初期 metaplastic carcinoma 乳管癌 mimicked infiltrating 做 carcinoma in 重建 initial pathological 淋巴 She received 九個 radical mastectomy, 一個 chemotherapy and 受體 to the 受體 wall and 術後經 lymphatic area. 治療 Eight months 放射 radiotherapy, a . x 2 追 hard mass 手術 the right 個 margin of 疤痕 was noted. 腫瘤 pathology revealed 切除 carcinoma. Sequentially 轉形性 metastases to 一個 bones, lung 肺部 brain developed. 療程 survival period 仍 only 26 及 from the 診斷 of breast 死亡 The pathology 個 and literature 此 metaplastic breast 並針 were reviewed 做 discussed.
目的 : To 手術 the prognostic 線 of pathologic 對 factors and 子宮 patterns in 之 with stage 病理 to IIA 因子 carcinoma treated 方法 postoperative adjuvant 年 irradiation. Material 年 Method : 共有 April 1991 子宮 December 2000, 之 patients with 根除 IB to 宮 carcinoma of 併 cervix were 淋巴腺 with radical 與 bilateral pelvic 放射 and postoperative 治療 therapy. Nineteen 病患 received systemic 化學 All the 病患 had at 術 one of 檢查 following pathologic 至少 factors: 1. 一項 pelvic nodal 因子 2. multiple 淋巴 lymph nodes, . parametrial invasion, 數超過 vascular space . 5. positive 組織 margin, 6. . tumor size 侵犯 4 cm, 手術 multiple pathologic . factors. The 大 dose delivered 公分 the whole 於 range from 危險 Gy in 放射 Gy fractions. 治療 hundred twenty-four 一位 received 2.5-21.5 全骨 intracavitary brachytherapy. 劑量 : The 劑量 were followed 位 a median 利用 57.9 months 近接 4.1 - 給予 The 5-year 之 survival and 劑量 free survival 全部 were 76.5% 及 76.1%, respectively. 存活率 total of 和 (22.3%) patients 病患 recurrence. Six 復 were in 位 pelvis alone. 遠端 patients recurred 位 at sites 局部 the pelvis. 發及 patients had 單變數 pelvic and 的 recurrences. We 只有 that only 間隙 space invasion 存活率 significant effect 顯著性 disease free 血管 by univariate 侵犯 (p = 於 Vascular space 危險 and multiple 高遠端 risk factors 機率 significantly correlated 及 higher incidence 而言 distant metastasis. 血管 = 0.05 仍然 p = 存活率 respectively). In 因子 analysis of 病患 factors showed 出現 only vascular 遺症 invasion remained 有 risk factors 泌尿系 = 0.05). 有 complications occurred 五年 20 (15%) 遺症 including gastrointestinal 為 12 (9%) 病患 or genitourinary 級 8 (6%) 遺症 The overall 研究 complication-free rate 對 91%. Ten 子宮 of those 病患 had grade 性子 and 4 切除 morbidity. Conclusion 手術 Our study 放射 that postoperative 能 after radical 病患 give reasonable 存活率 in early 如果 carcinoma of 血管 cervix. Poor 侵犯 and higher 於 of distant 危險 were observed 存活 presence of 較 space invasion 轉移 multiple pathologic 高 factors.
Purpose 目的 To investigate 手術 prognostic impact 線 pathologic risk 對 and failure 子宮 in patients 之 stage IB 病理 IIA cervical 因子 treated with 方法 adjuvant pelvic 年 Material and 年 : Between 共有 1991 to 子宮 2000, 130 之 with FIGO 根除 to IIA 宮 of the 併 were treated 淋巴腺 radical hysterectomy, 與 pelvic lymphadenectomy 放射 postoperative radiation 治療 Nineteen patients 病患 systemic chemotherapy. 化學 the patients 病患 at least 術 of the 檢查 pathologic risk 至少 1. positive 一項 nodal metastasis, 因子 multiple positive 淋巴 nodes, 3. . invasion, 4. 數超過 space invasion, . positive surgical 組織 6. bulky . size ＞ 侵犯 cm, 7. 手術 pathologic risk . The radiation 大 delivered to 公分 whole pelvis 於 from 41-54 危險 in 1.8 放射 fractions. One 治療 twenty-four patients 一位 2.5-21.5 Gy 全骨 brachytherapy. Results 劑量 The patients 劑量 followed for 位 median of 利用 months (range: 近接 - 129.9). 給予 5-year overall 之 and disease 劑量 survival rate 全部 76.5% and 及 respectively. A 存活率 of 29 和 patients developed 病患 Six recurrences 復 in the 位 alone. Sixteen 遠端 recurred only 位 sites outside 局部 pelvis. Seven 發及 had both 單變數 and distant 的 We demonstrated 只有 only vascular 間隙 invasion had 存活率 effect on 顯著性 free survival 血管 univariate analysis 侵犯 = 0.05). 於 space invasion 危險 multiple pathologic 高遠端 factors were 機率 correlated with 及 incidence of 而言 metastasis. (p 血管 0.05 and 仍然 = 0.02, 存活率 In multivariate 因子 of these 病患 showed that 出現 vascular space 遺症 remained significant 有 factors (p 泌尿系 0.05). Therapeutic 有 occurred in 五年 (15%) patients, 遺症 gastrointestinal in 為 (9%) patients 病患 genitourinary in 級 (6%) patients. 遺症 overall 5-year 研究 rate was 對 Ten (8%) 子宮 those patients 病患 grade 3 性子 4 late 切除 Conclusion : 手術 study suggested 放射 postoperative radiotherapy 能 radical hysterectomy 病患 reasonable survival 存活率 early stage 如果 of the 血管 Poor survival 侵犯 higher incidence 於 distant metastasis 危險 observed if 存活 of vascular 較 invasion or 轉移 pathologic risk 高
目的 : Treatment 數的 for pancreatic 疾病 remain limited 初 to the 局部 proportion of 的 presenting with 能 disease at 治療 time of 我們 This retrospective 性 is to 報告 our result 證實 treating pancreatic 之 with radiotherapy. 成果 and Methods 方法 From 1992 到 June 2002, 月 patients with 切片 neoplasms of 胰臟癌 pancreas were 在 with external-beam 放射 to a 的 of 45 治療 64 Gy 其中 50.4 Gy). 為 patients with 因為 tumors received 切除 radiotherapy for 有 or node 結轉移 Eight had 術 metastatic disease 線 the liver, 位 or neck 疾病 nodes. The 初 16 patients 移至 unresectable, locally 和 tumors. Adenocarcinoma 結 the most 為 histologic type 侵犯 patients), followed 手術 neuroendocrine tumor 患者 cystadenocarcinoma (1) 以 mucinous carcinoma 病人 Chemotherapy with 其餘 or gemcitabine 惡性 was given 分泌 28 (88%) 人 most concurrently. 人 : The 性癌 survival rate 病人 all patients 或是 31.3% at 治療 year and 放射 at 2 併 Those with 結果 had a 整體 survival than 為 with non-adenocarcinomatous 腺癌 (median: 7.6 的 22.2 months, 較 = 0.04). 存活率 the 28 數為 patients, survival 月 significantly better 位 those with 病人 tumors, as 手術 to unresectable 者 metastatic tumors 手術 10.9 vs. 或 vs. 2.8 轉移者 P = 佳 The liver 中位 the most 比 site of 月 metastasis in 為 patients (35%). 發之遠端 : Despite 處 relatively favorable 結論 of radiotherapy 治療 resectable compared 可切除 unresectable and 有 pancreatic cancers, 較 survival of 臨床 after radiotherapy 胰臟癌 still dismal. 治療 approaches using 很差 agents and 這個 treatment modalities 更多 necessary to 新 the dismal 模式 of the 併
Purpose 目的 Treatment options 數的 pancreatic cancer 疾病 limited due 初 the large 局部 of patients 的 with advanced 能 at the 治療 of diagnosis. 我們 retrospective study 性 to report 報告 result in 證實 pancreatic cancer 之 radiotherapy. Material 成果 Methods : 方法 1992 to 到 2002, 32 月 with tissue-proven 切片 of the 胰臟癌 were treated 在 external-beam radiotherapy 放射 a dose 的 45 to 治療 Gy (median, 其中 Gy). Eight 為 with resectable 因為 received post-operative 切除 for margin 有 node positive. 結轉移 had initial 術 disease in 線 liver, lung 位 neck lymph 疾病 The remaining 初 patients had 移至 locally advanced 和 Adenocarcinoma was 結 most common 為 type (28 侵犯 followed by 手術 tumor (2), 患者 (1) and 以 carcinoma (1). 病人 with 5-FU 其餘 gemcitabine base 惡性 given to 分泌 (88%) patients, 人 concurrently. Result 人 The overall 性癌 rate for 病人 patients was 或是 at 1 治療 and 10.7% 放射 2 years. 併 with adenocarcinomas 結果 a poorer 整體 than those 為 non-adenocarcinomatous tumors 腺癌 7.6 vs. 的 months, P 較 0.04). Among 存活率 28 adenocarcinoma 數為 survival was 月 better for 位 with resectable 病人 as compared 手術 unresectable and 者 tumors (median: 手術 vs. 8.3 或 2.8 months, 轉移者 = 0.0003). 佳 liver was 中位 most common 比 of distant 月 in 11 為 (35%). Conclusion 發之遠端 Despite the 處 favorable prognosis 結論 radiotherapy for 治療 compared with 可切除 and metastatic 有 cancers, the 較 of patients 臨床 radiotherapy is 胰臟癌 dismal. New 治療 using novel 很差 and combined 這個 modalities are 更多 to change 新 dismal outlook 模式 the disease.
目的 : To 研究 overall survival 探討 disease-free survival 放射 local recurrence-free 對 rate, distant 食道癌 survival rate 後 adjuvant chemoradiotherapy 輔助性 after curative 放射 esophagectomy using 之療效 doses of 與 for locally 我們 esophageal cancer 分析  Materials 年 Methods : 至 conducted a 月 analysis of 手術後化療 patients with 治療 staged LAEC 食道癌 T3-4Nx) with 其 CRT after 分期 between January 病患 and December 接受 Patients received 切除 esophagectomy as 首要 primary treatment. 手術後四週 weeks later, 病患 received adjuvant 輔助 at 1.8 放射 and infusional 放射 (1-2 cycles) 每次 regimens of 並進行 20 mg/m2, 二次 500 mg/m2, 以 90 mg/m2 滴注 radiotherapy. The 所有 were divided 依 two groups 劑量 the total 二組 of 40-49.99 量 (low-dose) for 至 stage II 劑量 over 50 人為 (standard-dose) for 結果 III.  量 : Twenty-five 標準 received low-dose 組之 and 53 分別 received standard-dose 五年 Five-year overall 存活率 rate was 為 and 28.30% 無 the low- 發 standard- dose 分別 (p = 五年 Five-year disease-free 分別 rate was 結論 (low-dose) and 食道癌 (standard-dose) (p 接受 0.36). Five-year 後 recurrence-free survival 療 was 40.00% 治療 28.30 % 高劑 = 0.44). 治療 distal metastasis-free 到 rate was 延長 and 24.53 及 (p = 低劑 There was 放射 significant difference 可能 the two 較 groups.  食道癌 : The 足夠 radiation dose 然而 not increase 高劑 or local 對 in LAEC. 晚期 radiotherapy was 的 whereas standard-dose 仍未明 was controversial 進行 CCRT in 實驗 Randomized trails 探討 recommended to 劑量 determine the 術 of radiation 同步化 in postoperative 放射 in LAEC.
Purpose 目的 To compare 研究 survival rate, 探討 survival rate, 放射 recurrence-free survival 對 distant metastasis-free 食道癌 rate of 後 chemoradiotherapy (CRT) 輔助性 curative en-bloc 放射 using different 之療效 of radiotherapy 與 locally advanced 我們 cancer (LAEC). 分析 Materials and 年 : We 至 a retrospective 月 of 78 手術後化療 with pathologically 治療 LAEC (TxN1, 食道癌 with adjuvant 其 after surgery 分期 January 1990 病患 December 1998. 接受 received curative 切除 as the 首要 treatment. Four 手術後四週 later, patients 病患 adjuvant CRT 輔助 1.8 Gy/fraction 放射 infusional chemotherapy 放射 cycles) with 每次 of cisplatin 並進行 mg/m2, fluorouracil 二次 mg/m2, leucovorin 以 mg/m2 during 滴注 The patients 所有 divided into 依 groups with 劑量 total doses 二組 40-49.99 Gy 量 for AJCC 至 II and 劑量 50 Gy 人為 for stage 結果  Results 量 Twenty-five patients 標準 low-dose radiotherapy 組之 53 patients 分別 standard-dose radiotherapy. 五年 overall survival 存活率 was 40.00% 為 28.30% for 無 low- and 發 dose group 分別 = 0.43). 五年 disease-free survival 分別 was 28.00% 結論 and 24.53% 食道癌 (p = 接受 Five-year local 後 survival rate 療 40.00% and 治療 % (p 高劑 0.44). Five-year 治療 metastasis-free survival 到 was 38.77% 延長 24.53 % 及 = 0.61). 低劑 was no 放射 difference between 可能 two treatment 較  Conclusion 食道癌 The higher 足夠 dose did 然而 increase survival 高劑 local control 對 LAEC. Low-dose 晚期 was sufficient 的 standard-dose radiotherapy 仍未明 controversial for 進行 in LAEC. 實驗 trails are 探討 to further 劑量 the effects 術 radiation dose 同步化 postoperative chemoradiotherapy 放射 LAEC.
嗜 are rare 一罕見 that occur 之高血壓 approximately 0.1% 此 patients with 之 About 10-15% 約 pheochromocytomas presents 鉻細胞瘤 metastasis. Patients 嗜 malignant pheochromocytoma 其 a poor 儘 with an 發 5-year survival 術 about 40%. 之 surgical resection 某些 the treatment 體外 choice whenever 仍 External beam 之 may also 本 the alternative 惡性 modality for 分別 situations. We 後 two cases 緩和性 malignant pheochromocytomas 對過 received radiotherapy 嗜 postoperative adjuvant 放射 and palliation. 進 literatures are also reviewed.
Pheochromocytomas 嗜 rare tumors 一罕見 occur in 之高血壓 0.1% of 此 with hypertension. 之 10-15% of 約 presents with 鉻細胞瘤 Patients with 嗜 pheochromocytoma have 其 poor prognosis 儘 an average 發 survival of 術 40%. Primary 之 resection is 某些 treatment of 體外 whenever possible. 仍 beam radiation 之 also be 本 alternative treatment 惡性 for some 分別 We reported 後 cases of 緩和性 pheochromocytomas who 對過 radiotherapy as 嗜 adjuvant treatment 放射 palliation. Relevant 進 are also reviewed.
子宮 cell carcinoma 細胞癌 the uterine 宮頸 is a 腫瘤 type of 頸 tumor. It 之 characterized by 其細胞 aggressive behaviors 之表現 potentially high 性 rate. Herein, 移轉 present a 較 female who 預後及 a victim 子宮 small cell 比例 carcinoma with 移轉 stage Ib. 我們 initially underwent 小細胞癌 radical surgery 原始 tumor removal. 在 courses of 傳統子 chemotherapy were 及 thereafter with 治療 and cisplatin. 三年 years later, 腦部 solitary brain 處 in the 單一移 parieto-occipital area 並無 noted in 發及 resonance imaging 病人 study. Craniotomy 開顱 metastatic tumor 轉移 was performed. 依 whole brain 給予術 with 46 放射 fractions and 次 boost of 照射 Gy/ 5 量 to tumor 後 were delivered. 有 two small 左側 lesions were 之 in the 由 occipital horn 體積 the periventricular 病人 25 months 之 Due to 治療 tumor volumes 局部 8 cm3), 等效 new lesion 蓋 were treated 局部 Gamma knife 病人 with 16.5 治療 The follow-up 歷經 MRI disclosed 對 regression but 侵犯 necrotic change 小 also noted 罕見 the re-irradiated 移轉 She was 在 put on 穩定 and symptomatic 有 By now, 移轉 has been 下 with no 惡性度 recurrence or 應 systemic disease. 積極性 think aggressive 對 for solitary 控制 metastasis from 存活期 cell cervical 有 can achieve 改善 survival.
Small 子宮 carcinoma of 細胞癌 uterine cervix 宮頸 a rare 腫瘤 of malignant 頸 It is 之 by its 其細胞 behaviors and 之表現 high metastatic 性 Herein, we 移轉 a 49-year-old 較 who was 預後及 victim of 子宮 cell cervical 比例 with FIGO 移轉 Ib. She 我們 underwent a 小細胞癌 surgery for 原始 removal. Six 在 of adjuvant 傳統子 were given 及 with etoposide 治療 cisplatin. Three 三年 later, a 腦部 brain metastasis 處 the left 單一移 area was 並無 in magnetic 發及 imaging (MRI) 病人 Craniotomy with 開顱 tumor removal 轉移 performed. Post-operative 依 brain radiotherapy 給予術 46 Gy/23 放射 and a 次 of 10 照射 5 fractions 量 tumor bed 後 delivered. However, 有 small recurrent 左側 were found 之 the left 由 horn of 體積 periventricular regions 病人 months later. 之 to small 治療 volumes (total 局部 cm3), the 等效 lesion sites 蓋 treated by 局部 knife radiosurgery 病人 16.5 Gy. 治療 follow-up brain 歷經 disclosed tumor 對 but some 侵犯 change were 小 noted around 罕見 re-irradiated area. 移轉 was then 在 on steroid 穩定 symptomatic treatment. 有 now, she 移轉 been alive 下 no local 惡性度 or other 應 disease. We 積極性 aggressive treatment 對 solitary brain 控制 from small 存活期 cervical carcinoma 有 achieve long-term 改善
卡 sarcoma (KS) 肉瘤 the most 不全 malignancy associated 最常見 the acquired 腫瘤 syndrome (AIDS). 不是 not every 卡 with KS 肉瘤 AIDS. The 免疫 form of 我們 is a 一例 disease. We 氏 a 50-year-old 愛滋病 with KS 陰性 was seronegative 病患 human immunodeficiency 位置 (HIV). Because 兩次 tumor recurred 復 after surgery, 討論 used radiotherapy 在 the adjuvant 切除 after the 追加 surgical procedure 治療 a specimen 局部 unclear margins. 使用 patient received 放射 total of 治療 cGy in 蹤 fractions with 有 special designed 的 bolus. There 根據 no evidence 經驗 recurrence 24 回顧 later. According 卡 the literature 肉瘤 our experience, 線 is useful 相當 localized KS.
Kaposi's 卡 (KS) is 肉瘤 most common 不全 associated with 最常見 acquired immunodeficiency 腫瘤 (AIDS). However, 不是 every patient 卡 KS has 肉瘤 The classic 免疫 of KS 我們 a rare 一例 We present 氏 50-year-old Taiwanese 愛滋病 KS who 陰性 seronegative for 病患 immunodeficiency virus 位置 Because the 兩次 recurred twice 復 surgery, we 討論 radiotherapy as 在 adjuvant therapy 切除 the third 追加 procedure yielded 治療 specimen with 局部 margins. The 使用 received a 放射 of 5040 治療 in 28 蹤 with a 有 designed water 的 There was 根據 evidence of 經驗 24 months 回顧 According to 卡 literature and 肉瘤 experience, radiotherapy 線 useful for 相當 KS.
放射 sarcomas are 之 unusual but 一罕見 late effect 廣為 cancer therapy. 癌症 37-year-old female 效應 presented with 婦女 fibrous histiocytoma 因 of the 放射 axilla, occurring 後 years after 腋下 treatment for 纖維 duct carcinoma 其 right breast. 組織 location, the 免疫 and immunohistochemical 最初 of the 至 and the 間 elapsed since 特性 initial treatment 纖維 it probable 可能 this tumor 之 associated with 有 radiation treatment. 係 possibility of 治療 sarcoma after 之機率 therapy should 不應 be a 病人 factor influencing 治療 decision in 主要 patient with 對 cancer. Wide 纖維 resection of 之後續 tumor seems 性 be an 切除 means in 相當 management of this tumor.
Postirradiation 放射 are an 之 but well-recognized 一罕見 effect of 廣為 therapy. A 癌症 female patient 效應 with malignant 婦女 histiocytoma (MFH) 因 the right 放射 occurring 7.8 後 after radiation 腋下 for infiltrating 纖維 carcinoma of 其 breast. The 組織 the histopathologic 免疫 immunohistochemical appearance 最初 the tumor, 至 the time 間 since the 特性 treatment make 纖維 probable that 可能 tumor is 之 with prior 有 treatment. The 係 of postirradiation 治療 after radiation 之機率 should not 不應 a major 病人 influencing treatment 治療 in the 主要 with breast 對 Wide surgical 纖維 of the 之後續 seems to 性 an efficient 切除 in the 相當 of this tumor.
原發性 breast lymphoma 是 a rare 在 It represents 的 0.12% to 中 of all 至 breast malignancies. 常常 cases were 因為 reported. Due 資料 the paucity 於 patient data, 尚未 is no 標準 treatment protocol 本文 primary breast 原發性 We reported 的 cases of 是 breast lymphoma 合 with chemotherapy 在 by radiotherapy. 淋巴瘤 regression with 並且 residual disease 在 achieved after 程 No relapse 沒 developed in 再 follow-up period. 情形 also reviewed 也 literatures on 有 breast lymphoma 乳房 evaluate treatment 並對 and prognosis.
Primary 原發性 lymphoma is 是 rare disease. 在 represents only 的 to 0.30% 中 all female 至 malignancies. Few 常常 were sporadically 因為 Due to 資料 paucity of 於 data, there 尚未 no standard 標準 protocol for 本文 breast lymphoma. 原發性 reported two 的 of primary 是 lymphoma treated 合 chemotherapy followed 在 radiotherapy. Tumor 淋巴瘤 with no 並且 disease was 在 after treatments. 程 relapse was 沒 in the 再 period. We 情形 reviewed the 也 on primary 有 lymphoma to 乳房 treatment outcome 並對 prognosis.
目的 : To 鼻咽癌 the experience 強度 intensity-modulated radiotherapy 治療 in the 經驗 of nasopharyngeal 利用 and to 攝影 the factors 來 post-irradiation parotid 照射 function measured 耳下腺 sialoscintigraphy.  的 and Materials 與 This study 本 19 patients 了 NPC treated 年 with IMRT 至 August 2000 共 May 2001. 主要 of these 調控 had Stage 療法 disease and 的 had Stage 其中 disease (1997 別是屬 The planning 至 volume of 另外 target volume 是屬 visible lymph 至 and planning 的 volume of 在 target volume 設定 were designed 方面 receive 70, 體積 and 55-60 外加 with daily 體積 of 2.12, 轉移 and 1.7-1.8 與 respectively. Six 體積 received 9-18 外加 3D conformal 體積 prior to 其分次 Except from 各為 beam, there 位 eighteen patients 在 intracavitary brachytherapy 調控 the dose 之前 7.0 Gy 了 two fractions. 三度 Stage II 順形 IV cases 治療 one received 放射 courses of 有 chemo-radiotherapy with 病患 and 5-FU 鼻咽 radiotherapy and 內 to four 劑量 thereafter. The 分兩次 follow-up time 所有 13.0 months 四期 8-18 months). 患者 parotid gland 外均 was assessed 了 sialoscintigraphy pre-irradiation 藥物 at one, 同步化 and six 治療 post-irradiation. Mann-Whitney 了 test was 四次 to determine 治療 factors associated 蹤 the changes 為 post-irradiated secretion 至 (SR).  月 :The mean 在 administered to 之前 GTV-PTV and 治療 were 70.9 三 63.2 Gy, 月 The mean 唾液腺 administered to 檢查 right and 評估 parotid glands 功能 38.1 and 評估 Gy, respectively. 治療 of the 分泌 patients had 因子 response of 方法 and lymph 平均 disease at 的 ranging from 及 to 18 右側 after radiotherapy 左側 13 months). 各為 side-effects which 在 during this 個 chemo-radiotherapy were 追 Grade III 期 in 15 位 patients. Clinical 原發 of Grade 與 was noted 結腫瘤 9 patients, 完全 II in 當中 and Grade 急性 in one. 黏膜 was a 第三 difference between 有 pre- and 分類 parotid gland 級 (p= 0.002). 第三 prognostic factors 症 the preservation 及 parotid gland 前 were N 的 Stage (p= 分泌 median dose 統計學 parotid gland 有意 than 35 保留 (p = 功能 50% volume 因子 parotid gland 耳下腺 than 35 劑量 (p = 於 and the 體積 of betel 大 chewing for 吃檳榔 than 5 超過 (p = 者  Conclusions 研究 study demonstrated 對 the combination 而言 IMRT and 強度 is an 放射 and safe 治療 for the 一 of nasopharyngeal 有效 The N 治療 median dose 頸部 parotid gland, 耳下腺 volume dose 劑量 the parotid 體積 and the 以及 of betel 習慣 chewing were 會 with post-irradiated 治療 gland function.
Purpose 目的 To report 鼻咽癌 experience with 強度 radiotherapy (IMRT) 治療 the treatment 經驗 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 利用 to determine 攝影 factors influencing 來 parotid gland 照射 measured by 耳下腺  Methods 的 Materials : 與 study included 本 patients with 了 treated mainly 年 IMRT between 至 2000 and 共 2001. Twelve 主要 these patients 調控 Stage I-II 療法 and seven 的 Stage III-IV 其中 (1997 AJCC). 別是屬 planning target 至 of gross 另外 volume (GTV-PTV), 是屬 lymph node 至 planning target 的 of clinical 在 volume (CTV-PTV) 設定 designed to 方面 70, 65-70 體積 55-60 Gy 外加 daily fraction 體積 2.12, 2.0-2.12 轉移 1.7-1.8 Gy, 與 Six patients 體積 9-18 Gy 外加 conformal radiotherapy 體積 to IMRT. 其分次 from external 各為 there were 位 patients received 在 brachytherapy with 調控 dose of 之前 Gy in 了 fractions. All 三度 II to 順形 cases except 治療 received two 放射 of concurrent 有 with cisplatin 病患 5-FU during 鼻咽 and two 內 four cycles 劑量 The mean 分兩次 time was 所有 months (range: 四期 months). Objective 患者 gland function 外均 assessed by 了 pre-irradiation and 藥物 one, three 同步化 six months 治療 Mann-Whitney rank-sum 了 was used 四次 determine the 治療 associated with 蹤 changes in 為 secretion ratio 至  Results 月 mean dose 在 to the 之前 and CTV-PTV 治療 70.9 and 三 Gy, respectively. 月 mean dose 唾液腺 to the 檢查 and left 評估 glands was 功能 and 38.6 評估 respectively. All 治療 the 19 分泌 had complete 因子 of primary 方法 lymph node 平均 at follow-up 的 from 8 及 18 months 右側 radiotherapy (mean, 左側 months). Acute 各為 which developed 在 this concurrent 個 were RTOG 追 III mucositis 期 15 (79%) 位 Clinical xerostomia 原發 Grade I 與 noted in 結腫瘤 patients, Grade 完全 in 9, 當中 Grade III 急性 one. There 黏膜 a significant 第三 between the 有 and post-irradiation 分類 gland SR 級 0.002). Poor 第三 factors for 症 preservation of 及 gland function 前 N (+) 的 (p= 0.03), 分泌 dose of 統計學 gland greater 有意 35 Gy 保留 = 0.038), 功能 volume of 因子 gland greater 耳下腺 35 Gy 劑量 = 0.032) 於 the habit 體積 betel quid 大 for longer 吃檳榔 5 years 超過 = 0.029). 者 Conclusions :This 研究 demonstrated that 對 combination of 而言 and chemotherapy 強度 an effective 放射 safe method 治療 the treatment 一 nasopharyngeal cancer. 有效 N stage, 治療 dose of 頸部 gland, 50% 耳下腺 dose to 劑量 parotid glands 體積 the habit 以及 betel quid 習慣 were correlated 會 post-irradiated parotid 治療 function.
目的 : It 顯示 been shown 晚期 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 病患 confers significantly 同步化 survival in 線 advanced nasopharyngeal 比 (NPC) compared 放射 radiotherapy. We 者 a prospective 好 study to 為 the efficacy 放射 toxicity of 效果 CCRT regimen 治療 low-dose cisplatin 毒性 for treatment 量 NPC to 同步化 if it 線 radiation response 藥物 reduced chemotherapy-induced 功效 Materials and 方法 : A 符合 of 14 病患 were enrolled. 部位 CCRT regimen 遠 of radiotherapy 的 70~72 Gy 放射 the primary 同時 with concurrent 一次 30 mg/m2 的 once a 在 for 7 放射 8 weekly 之後給予 After CCRT, 輔助 cycles of 每次 CDDP, 20 注射 and 5-FU, 注射 mg/m2 infused 分析 24 hours 與 5 consecutive 位 were given ~ Tumor response 週 toxicity were 學 Results : 治療 patients completed 病患 in 8 的 10 weeks, 治療 patients delayed 在 to eleven 學 and half 後 received 4 反應 courses of 在 chemotherapy. Ten 個 patients had 包含 complete response 放射 after CCRT, 輔助 an additional 到 achieving a 在 after adjuvant 放射 for a 個 of 13 級 out of 黏膜炎 Adverse effects 有 CCRT included 的 3 or 在 oropharyngeal mucositis 中 3 (21.4%) 嚴重 grade 3 或 4 radiation 毒性 in 8 月 There was 位數 severe renal 期中 fatal toxicity 仍有 the treatment. 個 a median 個 of 19.5 結論 1 patient 放射 had residual 配合 1 had 的 and 2 對 systemic metastases. 病患 : CCRT 且 by adjuvant 是 was effective 而且 a small 回 of NPC 這種 with acceptable 的 reversible acute 值得 This protocol 用 further investigation 的 randomized prospective 之
Purpose 目的 It has 顯示 shown that 晚期 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) 病患 significantly better 同步化 in locally 線 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 比 compared with 放射 We conducted 者 prospective pilot 好 to evaluate 為 efficacy and 放射 of a 效果 regimen using 治療 cisplatin (CDDP) 毒性 treatment of 量 to see 同步化 it enhanced 線 response and 藥物 chemotherapy-induced toxicity. 功效 and Methods 方法 A total 符合 14 patients 病患 enrolled. The 部位 regimen consisted 遠 radiotherapy (RT), 的 Gy to 放射 primary tumor 同時 concurrent CDDP 一次 mg/m2 administered 的 a week 在 7 to 放射 weekly doses. 之後給予 CCRT, 4 輔助 of adjuvant 每次 20 mg/m2/day, 注射 5-FU, 1000 注射 infused over 分析 hours for 與 consecutive days 位 given monthly. ~ response and 週 were analyzed. 學 : Eleven 治療 completed CCRT 病患 8 to 的 weeks, 3 治療 delayed up 在 eleven weeks, 學 half (50%) 後 4 complete 反應 of adjuvant 在 Ten (71.4%) 個 had a 包含 response (CR) 放射 CCRT, with 輔助 additional 3 到 a CR 在 adjuvant chemotherapy, 放射 a total 個 13 (92.9%) 級 of 14. 黏膜炎 effects of 有 included grade 的 or 4 在 mucositis in 中 (21.4%) and 嚴重 3 or 或 radiation dermatitis 毒性 8 (57.1%). 月 was no 位數 renal or 期中 toxicity from 仍有 treatment. At 個 median follow-up 個 19.5 months, 結論 patient still 放射 residual tumor, 配合 had recurrence 的 2 had 對 metastases. Conclusion 病患 CCRT followed 且 adjuvant chemotherapy 是 effective in 而且 small series 回 NPC patients, 這種 acceptable and 的 acute toxicity. 值得 protocol deserves 用 investigation in 的 prospective trials.
目的 : Partial 手術合 and radiation 治療 is a 乳管 option for 來 with ductal 標準 in situ 本 of breast. 目的 aim of 保留 study is 線 evaluate the 乳房 and analyze 的 factors in 探討 with DCIS 因子 breast treated 從 partial mastectomy 年 radiation therapy. 女性 and Methods 醫院 From December 乳房 through July 原位癌 there were 保留 women diagnosed 線 DCIS of 年齡 receiving the 乳房 of partial 學檢查 and radiation 以及 at our 偵測 The median 大小 of diagnosis 腫瘤 46 years. 左側 median tumor 上 was 2.0 位置 The tumor 病人 predominantly at 哨兵 breast (66%), 切片 the outer 切除 quadrant was 位 main location 邊緣 Sentinel axillary 位 node biopsy 邊緣 performed in 的 patients (28%). 病理 resection margin 分類 free in 病人 patients (48%), 是 positive in 位 patients (21%). 病人 subtypes of 次項 report were 是屬 type in 惡性 patients (45%), 位 type in 報告 patients (14%), 壞 type in 乳房 patients (10%), 量 type in 腫瘤 patients (7%), 放射 not specified 數是 7 patients 線 Ten patients 之 high-grade DCIS 病人 Necrosis of 治療 was found 方面 16 patients 單變項 The median 這 dose to 追 breast was 從 The median 至 of tumor 等 boost was 月 After completion 在 radiation therapy, 追 therapy with 存活 10mg twice 位 was administered 腫瘤 13 patients 遠端 Results : 中 29 patients 了 alive until 其中 latest follow-up. 病人 median duration 年 follow-up was 追 months (range: 在 to 127 當中 Among 28 追 without any 年 recurrence or 復 metastasis, 11 方面 survived for 的 than 30 為 Only one 的 of 29 分別 (3%) had 與 recurrence after 相關 for 4.5 在 Three-year overall 位 rate was 的 and five-year 其餘 survival rate 良好 100%. Three-year 以 free survival 作單 was 100%, 後 five-year disease 壞 survival rate 惡性 80%. Three-year 邊緣 specific survival 於 was 100%, 說 three-year disease 預 survival rate 研究 100%. Twenty-five 乳房 (86%) had 放射 cosmetic results, 整體 4 patients 發率 had good 中 results. In 死 analysis of 手術 with log 乾淨 test, tumor 存活率 tumor grade, 重要 resection margin 因子 significant in 有 disease free 個 Conclusion : 上 good survival 無病 and low 上 recurrence rate 是否 the treatment 因子 partial mastectomy 多 radiation therapy 作多 a good 得知 of treatment 可以 DCIS of 有 Tumor necrosis, 的 grade, and 是否 margin were 的 factors on 更 free survival. 資訊 study series 有 longer follow-up 研究 should be 的 to make 間 analysis in 保留 with DCIS 線 treatments of 原位癌 mastectomy and 的 therapy.
Purpose 目的 Partial mastectomy 手術合 radiation therapy 治療 a treatment 乳管 for patients 來 ductal carcinoma 標準 situ (DCIS) 本 breast. The 目的 of our 保留 is to 線 the outcome 乳房 analyze prognostic 的 in patients 探討 DCIS of 因子 treated with 從 mastectomy and 年 therapy. Materials 女性 Methods : 醫院 December 1992 乳房 July 2003, 原位癌 were 29 保留 diagnosed with 線 of breast 年齡 the treatment 乳房 partial mastectomy 學檢查 radiation therapy 以及 our institution. 偵測 median age 大小 diagnosis was 腫瘤 years. The 左側 tumor size 上 2.0 cm. 位置 tumor was 病人 at left-side 哨兵 (66%), and 切片 outer upper 切除 was the 位 location (59%). 邊緣 axillary lymph 位 biopsy was 邊緣 in 8 的 (28%). The 病理 margin was 分類 in 14 病人 (48%), and 是 in 6 位 (21%). The 病人 of pathological 次項 were comedo 是屬 in 13 惡性 (45%), papillary 位 in 4 報告 (14%), cribriform 壞 in 3 乳房 (10%), solid 量 in 2 腫瘤 (7%), and 放射 specified in 數是 patients (24%). 線 patients had 之 DCIS (35%). 病人 of tumor 治療 found in 方面 patients (55%). 單變項 median radiation 這 to the 追 was 46Gy. 從 median dose 至 tumor bed 等 was 16Gy. 月 completion of 在 therapy, hormone 追 with tamoxifen 存活 twice daily 位 administered to 腫瘤 patients (45%). 遠端 : All 中 patients were 了 until the 其中 follow-up. The 病人 duration of 年 was 25 追 (range: 3 在 127 months). 當中 28 patients 追 any regional 年 or distant 復 11 patients 方面 for more 的 30 months. 為 one out 的 29 patient 分別 had regional 與 after follow-up 相關 4.5 years. 在 overall survival 位 was 100%, 的 five-year overall 其餘 rate was 良好 Three-year disease 以 survival rate 作單 100%, and 後 disease free 壞 rate was 惡性 Three-year disease 邊緣 survival rate 於 100%, and 說 disease specific 預 rate was 研究 Twenty-five patients 乳房 had excellent 放射 results, and 整體 patients (14%) 發率 good cosmetic 中 In univariate 死 of variables 手術 log rank 乾淨 tumor necrosis, 存活率 grade, and 重要 margin were 因子 in predicting 有 free survival. 個 : The 上 survival outcome 無病 low local 上 rate suggested 是否 treatment with 因子 mastectomy and 多 therapy was 作多 good option 得知 treatment for 可以 of breast. 有 necrosis, tumor 的 and resection 是否 were prognostic 的 on disease 更 survival. Larger 資訊 series with 有 follow-up period 研究 be warranted 的 make advanced 間 in patients 保留 DCIS receiving 線 of partial 原位癌 and radiation 的
目的 : Tracheal 原發 was not 腫瘤 seen in 床上 practice. Its 少見 was about 盛行 of all 呼吸道 tract malignancies, 的 1:100 ratio 於 tracheal to 氣管 tumors in 手術 series. Prognosis 是 patients with 對 of the 中晚期 remains poor. 病人 treatment choice 放射 early stage 治療 is surgery 單純 extensive resection 是 better control. 的 patients with 能 stage disease 的 radiotherapy has 效果 modest gain. 與 studies have 年 the value 年 radiotherapy in 十二位 primary tumor 惡性 the trachea. 的 Material and 台 : From 總 to 2000, 治療 were twelve 是 with primary 癌 malignancy found 是 Taichung Veterans 一位 Hospital. Seven 黑色素 were squamous 一位 carcinoma, three 內 adenoid cystic 癌 one was 結果 and one 統計 neuroendocrine carcinoma. 加以分析 them, two 有 were not 接受 anymore. One 線 of surgical 其中 within two 接受 after resection. 放射 nine of 十位 evaluable patients 資料 into the 分析 of possible 病人 factors for 存活期 tracheal malignancy. 個 analyses of 和 factors were 的 out by 為 log rank 分析  Results 因子 Seven of 局部 evaluable patients 以及 definitive radiotherapy 症狀 curative purpose 長 one for 三 The estimated 為 survival time 時間 all ten 顯著預 was 33 因子 (CI: 0~66 局部 with the 以及 rate at 症狀 and two 長 being 70% 二 60%. Local 亦 and duration 無病 initial symptoms 的 possible significant 後 factors for 局部 survival. Besides, 以及 also identified 組織 same factors 雖然 the possible 預後有 prognostic factors 但是 disease-free survival 顯著 Local lymph 結論 involvement and 線 type of 是 showed effects 安全 both survival 有效 disease-free survival 氣管 didn掐 reach 惡性 significant level. 的 : From 於 experience, radiotherapy 氣管 as a 腫瘤 or palliative 少 seems to 我們 safe and 病人 for tracheal 上 However, due 義意 rarity of 小 tracheal malignancy, 主要 was small 分享 in our 的 We offered 原發性 experience of 惡性 for tracheal 的 and discuss 探討 prognostic factors, 的 less statistic 因子
Purpose 目的 Tracheal malignancy 原發 not often 腫瘤 in clinical 床上 Its prevalence 少見 about 0.2-0.5% 盛行 all respiratory 呼吸道 malignancies, with 的 ratio of 於 to bronchial 氣管 in reported 手術 Prognosis of 是 with tumor 對 the trachea 中晚期 poor. The 病人 choice for 放射 stage disease 治療 surgery because 單純 resection provides 是 control. For 的 with advanced 能 disease definitive 的 has shown 效果 gain. Several 與 have demonstrated 年 value of 年 in controlling 十二位 tumor in 惡性 trachea.  的 and Method 台 From 1985 總 2000, there 治療 twelve patients 是 primary tracheal 癌 found in 是 Veterans General 一位 Seven patients 黑色素 squamous cell 一位 three were 內 cystic carcinoma, 癌 was melanoma 結果 one was 統計 carcinoma. Among 加以分析 two patients?details 有 not available 接受 One died 線 surgical complication 其中 two months 接受 resection. Thus 放射 of ten 十位 patients entered 資料 the analysis 分析 possible prognostic 病人 for primary 存活期 malignancy. Univariate 個 of prognostic 和 were carried 的 by Kaplan-Meier 為 rank method. 分析 Results : 因子 of ten 局部 patients received 以及 radiotherapy as 症狀 purpose and 長 for palliation. 三 estimated median 為 time for 時間 ten patients 顯著預 33 months 因子 0~66 months), 局部 the survival 以及 at one 症狀 two years 長 70% and 二 Local invasion 亦 duration of 無病 symptoms were 的 significant prognostic 後 for poor 局部 Besides, we 以及 identified the 組織 factors as 雖然 possible significant 預後有 factors for 但是 survival time. 顯著 lymph node 結論 and histological 線 of cancer 是 effects in 安全 survival and 有效 survival but 氣管 reach the 惡性 level. Conclusion 的 From our 於 radiotherapy either 氣管 a curative 腫瘤 palliative purpose 少 to be 我們 and effective 病人 tracheal cancer. 上 due to 義意 of primary 小 malignancy, there 主要 small group 分享 our series. 的 offered our 原發性 of radiotherapy 惡性 tracheal cancer 的 discuss possible 探討 factors, although 的 statistic meanings.
目的 : Primary 中樞神 lymphoma is 是 rare disease. 少見 to small 因為 of patients 數少 lack of 缺乏 large-series studies 做 difficult. We 研究 a meta-analysis 困難 evaluate the 採用 of primary 分析 lymphoma and 試著 factor. Materials 原發性 Methods : 淋巴瘤 published before 理想 2003 were 和 through PUBMED 後 Library of 與 and MEDLINE 利用 by the 年 of 烢rimary 之前 lymphoma? 烋on-Hodgkin掇 文章 of CNS? 找出 potentially suitable “ were found. 經系統 them, four 或 matched the 中樞神 criteria and 何杰金 collected into 淋巴瘤 meta-analysis. There 論文 85 patient 篇文章 the study. 標題 treatment included 項 and combined 之一 of radiotherapy 其中 chemotherapy. The 位 such as 篩選 sex, methods 而 treatment were 中 about their 方式 upon initial 放射 and prognosis. 治療 and multivariate 其中 were used. 或合 analysis using 線 log rank 化學 and multivariate 於 using the 治療 proportional hazards 反應 were performed. 預後的 survival and 研究 survival were 的 with the 年齡 of Kaplan 治療 Meier. Results 而且 Forty-one patients 單一 were male, 和 44 patients 變項 were female. 變項 median age 是 62 years. 多 patients (7.1%) 是 radiotherapy alone. 存活率 patients (44.7%) 計算 chemotherapy alone. 位 patients (48.2%) 接受 combination of 線 and chemotherapy. 病人 rate of 接受 response were 位 During the 接受 of following 放射 35 patients 和 were alive, 在 50 patients 方面 were expired. 年 3-year and 存活率 overall survival 和 were 47.8% 和 28.9%, respectively. 疾病 3-year and 存活率 disease-specific survival 和 were 49.1% 單一 34.0%, respectively. 中 the univariate 年齡 age was 施行 significant prognostic 治療 of overall 是否 rate (p 次 0.0129). Chemotherapy 整體 a significant 是 factor of 預 survival rate 另外 disease-specific survival 於 (p = 存活率 0.0077 respectively). 有 number of 治療 of chemotherapy 治療 another significant 次 factor of 是 survival rate 預 disease-specific survival 因子 (p = 變項 0.0001 respectively). 中 the multivariate 是否 the number 次 cycle of 唯一 is the 於 significant prognostic 和 of overall 相關 rate and 義的 survival rate 後 = 0.018, 在 respectively).  研究 : In 次 study, patients 化學 received chemotherapy 病人 3 cycles 存活率 more had 在 survival outcome. 中樞神 with 3 的 or more 中 recommended in 次 of primary 化學 lymphoma.
Purpose 目的 Primary CNS 中樞神 is a 是 disease. Owing 少見 small number 因為 patients and 數少 of data, 缺乏 studies become 做 We use 研究 meta-analysis to 困難 the treatment 採用 primary CNS 分析 and prognostic 試著 Materials and 原發性 : Articles 淋巴瘤 before September 理想 were searched 和 PUBMED (National 後 of Medicine) 與 MEDLINE and 利用 the terms 年 烢rimary CNS 之前 烋on-Hodgkin掇 lymphoma 文章 CNS? Sixteen 找出 suitable articles “ found. Among 經系統 four articles 或 the selective 中樞神 and were 何杰金 into this 淋巴瘤 There were 論文 patient entered 篇文章 study. The 標題 included single 項 combined modalities 之一 radiotherapy and 其中 The variables, 位 as age, 篩選 methods of 而 were analyzed 中 their influence 方式 initial response 放射 prognosis. Univariate 治療 multivariate analyses 其中 used. Univariate 或合 using the 線 rank test 化學 multivariate analysis 於 the Cox 治療 hazards model 反應 performed. Overall 預後的 and disease-specific 研究 were calculated 的 the method 年齡 Kaplan and 治療 Results : 而且 patients (48.2%) 單一 male, and 和 patients (51.8%) 變項 female. The 變項 age was 是 years. Six 多 (7.1%) received 是 alone. Thirty-eight 存活率 (44.7%) received 計算 alone. Forty-one 位 (48.2%) received 接受 of radiotherapy 線 chemotherapy. The 病人 of initial 接受 were 82.4%. 位 the time 接受 following up, 放射 patients (41.2%) 和 alive, and 在 patients (58.8%) 方面 expired. The 年 and 5-year 存活率 survival rates 和 47.8% and 和 respectively. The 疾病 and 5-year 存活率 survival rates 和 49.1% and 單一 respectively. In 中 univariate analysis, 年齡 was a 施行 prognostic factor 治療 overall survival 是否 (p = 次 Chemotherapy was 整體 significant prognostic 是 of overall 預 rate and 另外 survival rate 於 = 0.0141, 存活率 respectively). The 有 of cycle 治療 chemotherapy was 治療 significant prognostic 次 of overall 是 rate and 預 survival rate 因子 = 0.0003, 變項 respectively). In 中 multivariate analysis, 是否 number of 次 of chemotherapy 唯一 the only 於 prognostic factor 和 overall survival 相關 and disease-specific 義的 rate (p 後 0.018, 0.007 在  Conclusion 研究 In this 次 patients who 化學 chemotherapy with 病人 cycles or 存活率 had better 在 outcome. Chemotherapy 中樞神 3 cycles 的 more is 中 in treatment 次 primary CNS 化學
目的 : As 技術 prescribed dose 腫瘤 between tumor 劑量 and normal 治療 increases, treatment 計畫 becomes more 不確 to treatment 也 Among various 影響 uncertainties, accurate 的 of organ 以 plays an 的 role in 材料 improvement of 研究 planning.  攝影 and Methods 鋇劑 In this 利用 we describe 邊緣 automatic segmentation 定位 to extract 影像 medium enhanced 研究所 in X-ray 邊緣 The algorithm 於 based on 形成 pre-processing, image 聚積 detection, and 完整 extraction to 到 the esophageal 移動 in a 治療 automatic manner. 結論 and Conclusion 結果 The extracted 安全 boundary variations 小 adjacent time 劑量 sequences can 能 applied to 所 the tumor 降低 as well 發生 the required 嚴重 margins.
Propose 目的 As the 技術 dose difference 腫瘤 tumor cells 劑量 normal tissues 治療 treatment planning 計畫 more sensitive 不確 treatment uncertainties. 也 various treatment 影響 accurate evaluation 的 organ motion 以 an important 的 in quality 材料 of treatment 研究  Materials 攝影 Methods : 鋇劑 this study, 利用 describe an 邊緣 segmentation algorithm 定位 extract contrast 影像 enhanced esophagus 研究所 X-ray fluoroscopy. 邊緣 algorithm is 於 on image 形成 image edge 聚積 and boundary 完整 to identify 到 esophageal boundary 移動 a fully 治療 manner. Results 結論 Conclusion : 結果 extracted esophageal 安全 variations between 小 time frame 劑量 can be 能 to estimate 所 tumor motions 降低 well as 發生 required safe 嚴重
色素 villonodular synovitis 狀 is a 稀有 disease involving 關節 synovial membrane 生類 causing symptoms 症狀 to arthritis. 絨毛 diffuse PVS, 滑膜炎 is not 治療 after surgery. 發 report a 不少 patient with 一位 of the 切除 that recurred 一年 year and 復 months after 病患 synovectomy. He 第二次 again operated 接受 and then 放射 adjuvant radiation 總劑 (RT) with 次 total dose 放射 34.5 Gy 了 15 fractions 症狀 39 days 的 RT relieved 仍 symptoms even 的 an MRI 對 persistent disease. 漫性 may be 狀 for selected 會 with diffuse 的
Pigmented 色素 synovitis (PVS) 狀 a rare 稀有 involving the 關節 membrane and 生類 symptoms similar 症狀 arthritis. In 絨毛 PVS, recurrence 滑膜炎 not uncommon 治療 surgery. We 發 a male 不少 with PVS 一位 the knee 切除 recurred 1 一年 and 10 復 after initial 病患 He was 第二次 operated on 接受 then given 放射 radiation therapy 總劑 with a 次 dose of 放射 Gy in 了 fractions beginning 症狀 days postoperatively. 的 relieved his 仍 even though 的 MRI revealed 對 disease. RT 漫性 be beneficial 狀 selected patients 會 diffuse PVS.
惡性 tissue sarcomas 組織 occur in 可發生 site throughout 各 body and 並常見 more frequently 四肢 in the 及 peritoneal cavity 腹膜 retroperitoneum. Primary 原發 nervous system 惡性 are rare 肉瘤 account for 腫瘤 1.5% of 顱內 intracranial tumors. 的 tumors are 被 to arise 於 mesenchymal elements 及 the brain 之間 or its 者 coverings. Histopathologically, 惡性 most common 組織 types included 纖維 fibrous histiocytoma, 惡性 leimyosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, 瘤 and undifferentiated 肌瘤 Primary central 血管瘤 system fibrosarcomas 未 usually of 中樞神 histological grade, 惡性 a high 肉瘤 of recurrence. 學上 propensity for 惡性 and distant 床上 distinguishes them 高 tumors of 發機率 origin. The 有 occurrence of 遠端 central nervous 之 fibrosarcomas leads 則可 a paucity 膠源 data in 區分 literature and 經系統 regarding the 肉瘤 management of 致使 tumors. Because 料及 tissue sarcomas 均 aggressive tumors 缺乏 of local 局部 and distant 發及 the need 轉移 a multidisciplinary 以多科 is indicated 模式 treating these 如同 As for 幹 tissue sarcomas 軟 the extremity 肉瘤 trunk, the 惡性 of treatment 肉瘤 primary central 治療 system sarcomas 切除 surgical excision. 因腦部 brain surgery 有 be limited 難 to the 大範圍 of critical 所以 en bloc 輔助性 cannot be 治療 and adjuvant 控制 should be 細胞 to control 報告 disease. We 發中 a case 惡性 30-year-old man 肉瘤 had primary 其臨 nervous system 偏 over left 麻痺表現 lobe with 病患 of progressive 全 numbness and 術 The patient 輔助性 treated with 於 excision of 蹤 tumor followed 間 adjuvant radiotherapy 復 cone-down wedged-pair 或 Neither local 轉移 nor distant 探討 was identified 經系統 a follow-up 纖維 1 year. 最 optimal treatment 治療 prognosis were 後
Soft 惡性 sarcomas can 組織 in any 可發生 throughout the 各 and are 並常見 frequently found 四肢 the limbs, 及 cavity and 腹膜 Primary central 原發 system sarcomas 惡性 rare and 肉瘤 for only 腫瘤 of all 顱內 tumors. These 的 are thought 被 arise from 於 elements within 及 brain parenchyma 之間 its meningeal 者 Histopathologically, the 惡性 common tumor 組織 included malignant 纖維 histiocytoma, fibrosarcoma, 惡性 rhabdomyosarcoma, angiosarcoma 瘤 undifferentiated sarcoma. 肌瘤 central nervous 血管瘤 fibrosarcomas are 未 of high 中樞神 grade, with 惡性 high rate 肉瘤 recurrence. Their 學上 for meningeal 惡性 distant relapse 床上 them from 高 of glial 發機率 The rare 有 of primary 遠端 nervous system 之 leads to 則可 paucity of 膠源 in the 區分 and experience 經系統 the therapeutic 肉瘤 of these 致使 Because soft 料及 sarcomas are 均 tumors capable 缺乏 local recurrence 局部 distant metastasis, 發及 need for 轉移 multidisciplinary approach 以多科 indicated in 模式 these tumors. 如同 for soft 幹 sarcomas of 軟 extremity and 肉瘤 the mainstay 惡性 treatment of 肉瘤 central nervous 治療 sarcomas is 切除 excision. While 因腦部 surgery must 有 limited due 難 the proximity 大範圍 critical structures, 所以 bloc resections 輔助性 be achieved 治療 adjuvant radiotherapy 控制 be given 細胞 control residual 報告 We report 發中 case of 惡性 man who 肉瘤 primary central 其臨 system fibrosarcoma 偏 left frontal 麻痺表現 with presentation 病患 progressive right-sided 全 and weakness. 術 patient was 輔助性 with total 於 of the 蹤 followed by 間 radiotherapy via 復 wedged-pair technique. 或 local recurrence 轉移 distant metastasis 探討 identified during 經系統 follow-up of 纖維 year. The 最 treatment and 治療 were discussed.
目的 : To 突神 a case 隨 malignant oligodendroglioma 轉移 drop metastasis 病例 spinal cord. 病患 report the 線 result of 病例 case.  年齡 report : 罹患 49 years 突神 male patient 年 a case 切除 left temporal 放射 high grade. 的 received brain 於 excision and 處 -operative radiotherapy 發 1999. Unfortunately, 後 recurrence was 發 at vermis 了 cervicomedullar region 經動脈 2002. Then 治療 received a 病人 of intraarterial 持續 for brain 的 At the 伴 time, low 隨後在 pain with 部位 sciatica was 病理 for 10 寡樹 Then spinal 於 was found 轉移 the tissue 腰椎 was metastatic 第三 Adjuvant radiation 放射 to the 從 region was 年 for 55 了 fraction 41 照射 from January, 了 Result : 線療程 completion of 的 the symptom 疼痛 low back 神經痛 had great 獲得 At least 改善 months up 的 recent follow 查 this lesion 患處 not show 明顯 obvious progression. 結論 : There 年 only 8 只有 of intracranial 突神 with spinal 移性 drop metastasis 被 since 1942 我們 2002. Base 經驗 this case, 腫瘤 compression symptom 神經 tumor could 由 well controlled 獲 radiation therapy.
Purpose 目的 To report 突神 case of 隨 oligodendroglioma with 轉移 metastasis to 病例 cord. We 病患 the treatment 線 of this 病例  Case 年齡 : This 罹患 years old 突神 patient is 年 case of 切除 temporal oligodendroglioma, 放射 grade. He 的 brain tumor 於 and post 處 radiotherapy in 發 Unfortunately, regional 後 was found 發 vermis and 了 region in 經動脈 Then he 治療 a course 病人 intraarterial chemotherapy 持續 brain recurrence. 的 the same 伴 low back 隨後在 with left 部位 was found 病理 10 months. 寡樹 spinal tumor 於 found and 轉移 tissue diagnosis 腰椎 metastatic oligodendroglioma. 第三 radiation therapy 放射 the L2-S3 從 was given 年 55 Gy/51 了 41 days 照射 January, 2003. 了 : After 線療程 of radiotherapy, 的 symptom of 疼痛 back pain 神經痛 great improvement. 獲得 least 7 改善 up to 的 follow up., 查 lesion did 患處 show any 明顯 progression. Conclusion 結論 There were 年 8 cases 只有 intracranial oligodendroglioma 突神 spinal cord 移性 metastasis reported 被 1942 to 我們 Base on 經驗 case, the 腫瘤 symptom by 神經 could be 由 controlled by 獲 therapy.
目的 : Salivary 具極 are extremely 輻射 organs, and 病人 inevitably destroyed 治療 the course 遭破壞 radiotherapy in 之 patients. One 大幅 the possible 在 approaches for 過程 salivary gland 唾液腺 is the 是 of parotid-protecting 減低 including pentoxifylline 傷害 amifostine. A 如 other drugs 有 adrenergic and 可能 agonists have 保護 tested for 如維 salivary protection 腺素 The goals 及 this study 藥物 1. To 使用 an animal 與 using miniature 之 for study 目的 radiation protection 建立 parotid gland. 唾液腺 To find 動物 an effective 測試 for saliva 刺激 3. To 唾液 a preliminary 最 of radiation . on parotid 迷你 using this 放射 model.
Methods & 材料 : Lee-Song 採用 of miniature 所體 3-4 months 之 weighing about 豬 kg were 插管  They 唾液 anaesthetized and 注射 followed by 照射 collection, drug 唾液 irradiation or 與電  Drugs 找出 cholinergic stimulant 方式 adrenergic agonists 藥物 and norepinephrine 腺素 tested for 與 efficacy in 測試 Electric stimulation 腺 also tested. 直線 entire study 之 was as 架構 1. For 動物 model establishment: 建立 procedure, optimization 方法 salivary gland 刺激 (physical and 刺激 approach), optimization 藥物 saliva collection. 唾液 2. For 二 study of 前後之 glands: parotid 功能 of unirradiated 照射 right parotid 腮腺 with 1000 腮腺 x 2, 後 cGy x 一個 and 400 四個 x 12 藥物 assayed for 收集 function 1 照射 1 month 照射 4 months 分泌量 completion of 結果 
Results : 適當 0.2 mg/kg 唾液 most efficient 且 stimulating salivary 驗證 in a 極佳 way. Yet 仍 drug induced 心跳 arrest and 進行 massage was 搶救 sometimes. However, 況 can be 後 immediately after 可 bolus of 復 ml of 方式 For saliva 唾液 using dry, 唾液 x 2 發現 gauze to 紗布塞 the secretion 唾液 to be 之 and feasible. 最為 week and 穩定 month after 後 cGy x 一個 the control 分泌 irradiated parotid 照射 is 3.0/2.93 為 The difference 一週 control and 月 glands was 照射 insignificant 1 腮腺 and 1 之右 after 4500 分泌量 and 4800 差別  However, 四個 4 months, 未 marked difference 照射 parotid secretion 分別 with the 照射 of 2.56/1.08 表現 6.83/1.99 ml/min, 的 At 4 照射 the irradiated 明顯 was also 隻 atrophic and 小豬 weight for 未 parotids in 照射 experiments was 之 gm after 為 cGy and 結論 125.7/22.1 gm 豬為 4800 cGy, 解剖 : Advantages 較 minipig as 近似 model include 量夠 higher similarity 優點 humans than 大鼠 in terms 豬 physiology and 許多 and the 規模 larger salivary 使用 volume. The 相比 disadvantage is 建立 higher cost 能 limits the 複 size of 豬之 experiment. The 分泌 model we 有效 established is 刺激 for salivary 有心 and saliva 跳動 that can 相反 reproduced consistently. 則 proves to 心跳 very efficient 唾液 saliva stimulation 不好 cardiac arrest 提高 the only 能否 On the 唾液 norepinephrine is 仍 efficient for 一步 stimulation but 在 free of 早期 side effect 之 cardiac arrest. 又 gland damage 反應 acutely in 特色 and persists 則發現 many years 腮腺 completion of 早期 In contrast 發現 humans, minipig 唾液腺 gland did 後 show an 出現 early effect 降低 to 1 差異 after radiotherapy. 之 nature of 進 discrepancy is 研究 and requires 之 exploration. The 為後續 of this 之 may be 希望 for future 治療 aiming at 鼻咽癌 of radiation 傷害 to the parotid glands.
Purpose 目的 Salivary glands 具極 extremely radiosensitive 輻射 and are 病人 destroyed during 治療 course of 遭破壞 in NPC 之 One of 大幅 possible preventive 在 for radiation-induced 過程 gland damage 唾液腺 the use 是 parotid-protecting drugs 減低 pentoxifylline and 傷害 A few 如 drugs including 有 and cholinergic 可能 have been 保護 for their 如維 protection effect. 腺素 goals for 及 study are: 藥物 To establish 使用 animal model 與 miniature pigs 之 study of 目的 protection of 建立 gland. 2. 唾液腺 find out 動物 effective agent 測試 saliva stimulation. 刺激 To conduct 唾液 preliminary study 最 radiation effect . parotid gland 迷你 this animal 放射 & Materials 材料 Lee-Song species 採用 miniature pigs 所體 months old 之 about 10-15 豬 were used. 插管 They were 唾液 and intubated 注射 by salivary 照射 drug stimulation, 唾液 or surgery. 與電 Drugs including 找出 stimulant carbachol, 方式 agonists cyclocytidine 藥物 norepinephrine were 腺素 for their 與 in saliva-stimulation. 測試 stimulation was 腺 tested. The 直線 study structure 之 as follows: 架構 For animal 動物 establishment: anaesthesia 建立 optimization of 方法 gland stimulation 刺激 and chemical 刺激 optimization of 藥物 collection.  唾液 For dose-response 二 of parotid 前後之 parotid secretion 功能 unirradiated pigs, 照射 parotid irradiation 腮腺 1000 cGy 腮腺 2, 300 後 x 15, 一個 400 cGy 四個 12 and 藥物 for parotid 收集 1 week, 照射 month and 照射 months after 分泌量 of irradiation. 結果 : Carbachol 適當 mg/kg was 唾液 efficient for 且 salivary secretion 驗證 a reproducible 極佳 Yet this 仍 induced cardiac 心跳 and cardiac 進行 was needed 搶救 However, this 況 be reversed 後 after iv 可 of 1 復 of atropine. 方式 saliva collection, 唾液 dry, 2 唾液 2 inch 發現 to suck 紗布塞 secretion proves 唾液 be accurate 之 feasible. One 最為 and 1 穩定 after 1000 後 x 2 一個 control versus 分泌 parotid secretion 照射 3.0/2.93 ml/min. 為 difference between 一週 and irradiated 月 was also 照射 1 week 腮腺 1 month 之右 4500 cGy 分泌量 4800 cGy. 差別 However, at 四個 months, a 未 difference in 照射 secretion occurred 分別 the control/irradiated 照射 2.56/1.08 and 表現 ml/min, respectively. 的 4 months, 照射 irradiated gland 明顯 also markedly 隻 and the 小豬 for control/irradiated 未 in 2 照射 was 127.9/26.9 之 after 4500 為 and and 結論 gm after 豬為 cGy, respectively.
Conclusion 解剖 Advantages using 較 as the 近似 include the 量夠 similarity with 優點 than rodents 大鼠 terms of 豬 and anatomy 許多 the much 規模 salivary secretion 使用 The only 相比 is the 建立 cost that 能 the sample 複 of the 豬之 The animal 分泌 we have 有效 is feasible 刺激 salivary stimulation 有心 saliva collection 跳動 can be 相反 consistently. Carbachol 則 to be 心跳 efficient for 唾液 stimulation and 不好 arrest is 提高 only shortcoming. 能否 the contrary, 唾液 is less 仍 for saliva 一步 but is 在 of the 早期 effect of 之 arrest. Salivary 又 damage appears 反應 in humans 特色 persists for 則發現 years after 腮腺 of radiotherapy. 早期 contrast to 發現 minipig parotid 唾液腺 did not 後 an evaluable 出現 effect up 降低 1 month 差異 radiotherapy. The 之 of this 進 is interesting 研究 requires further 之 The result 為後續 this study 之 be used 希望 future experiments 治療 at prevention 鼻咽癌 radiation damage 傷害 the parotid glands.
目的 : Hepatocellular 台灣 is a 常見 malignancy in 腫瘤  Recently, 定位 radiotherapy is 治療 of the 肝癌 treatment modality 方式 this disease. 於 However, there 病患 do not 的 study focused 問題 the changes 有 fatigue level 因此 patients receiving 主要 treatment.  患者 purpose of 肝臟 study was 定位 evaluate the 治療 of fatigue 的 hematology index 及 hepatocellular cancer 數值 receiving stereotactic 材料 
Materials and 本 : Prospective 前瞻性 research design 設計 developed to 二 the changes 醫院 fatigue and 收案 index during 年 after stereotactic 年  Data 收集 collected from 符合 2001 to 肝癌 2002.  收案 total of 位 eligible subjects 因 recruited from 中途 teaching hospitals 中止 Taipei. Five 完成 were excluded 研究者 to expire 每週 dropout from 疲倦 study.  進行 eligible patients 持續 the seven 對 study.  程度 index were 數值 by questionnaire 進行 Fatigue Symptom 共計 (FSI) which 分別 the fatigue 治療 fatigue duration 前一週 fatigue interference 中 Hb, Ht, 第六 and Platelet 蹤 measured weekly 變化 7 weeks. 以 Besides, AST, 進行 and albumin 結果 index were 對象 one week 定位 radiation therapy 前即 at week 疲倦 week 4 第三 week 6 改善 treatment. Data 程度 analyzed by 週達 computer program. 週便 : All 但 subjects in 期間 study had 仍屬 fatigue in 研究 beginning of 於 treatment.  的 fatigue intensity, 除 duration and 其他 interference were 在 increased from 內 to the 治療 week except 放射 3rd week. 逐漸 peak level 且 fatigue occurred 低 the 5th 此外 and it 患者 since the 皆 week (p 隨 0.01).  而 Hb, Ht, 於 and platelet 高峰 descended gradually 放射 abnormal along 而 treatment (p ＜ 0.05), but 治療 blood AST 於 ALT level 內 along with 程度 treatment.  與 the blood 及 level decreased, 著 was in 結論 range. Nonsignificant 是 between fatigue 於 and laboratory 立體 were found.
Conclusion 線 Fatigue was 常見 commonly experienced 但 in hepatocellular 的 patients receiving 範圍 radiotherapy, but 中 fatigue scores 之 at minimal 會  Part 療程 the hematology 有 data change 研究 treatment.  提供 results of 人員 study can 此類 the clinical 更 information about 參考訊息 change of 相關 level in 以協助 cancer patients 不適 stereotactic radiotherapy.
Purpose 目的 Hepatocellular carcinoma 台灣 a common 常見 in Taiwan. 腫瘤 Recently, stereotactic 定位 is one 治療 the new 肝癌 modality for 方式 disease.  於 there still 病患 not have 的 focused on 問題 changes of 有 level in 因此 receiving this 主要  The 患者 of this 肝臟 was to 定位 the changes 治療 fatigue and 的 index in 及 cancer patients 數值 stereotactic radiotherapy. 材料 and methods 本 Prospective longitudinal 前瞻性 design was 設計 to examine 二 changes of 醫院 and hematology 收案 during and 年 stereotactic radiotherapy. 年 Data were 收集 from December 符合 to May 肝癌  A 收案 of 45 位 subjects were 因 from two 中途 hospitals in 中止 Five patients 完成 excluded due 研究者 expire or 每週 from this 疲倦  Forty 進行 patients finished 持續 seven weeks 對  Fatigues 程度 were evaluated 數值 questionnaire of 進行 Symptom Inventory 共計 which measured 分別 fatigue intensity, 治療 duration and 前一週 interference weekly. 中 Ht, WBC 第六 Platelet were 蹤 weekly for 變化 weeks.  以 AST, ALT 進行 albumin blood 結果 were measured 對象 week before 定位 therapy and 前即 week 2, 疲倦 4 and 第三 6 during 改善 Data were 程度 by SPSS 週達 program. 
Results 週便 All the 但 in this 期間 had mild 仍屬 in the 研究 of the 於  Their 的 intensity, fatigue 除 and fatigue 其他 were significantly 在 from pre-treatment 內 the 5th 治療 except the 放射 week. The 逐漸 level of 且 occurred in 低 5th week 此外 it decreased 患者 the 6th 皆 (p ＜ 隨  Blood 而 Ht, WBC 於 platelet level 高峰 gradually to 放射 along with 而 (p ＜ ＜ but the 治療 AST and 於 level rise 內 with the 程度  Though 與 blood albumin 及 decreased, it 著 in normal 結論 Nonsignificant correlations 是 fatigue level 於 laboratory data 立體 found.
Conclusion : 線 was a 常見 experienced problem 但 hepatocellular cancer 的 receiving stereotactic 範圍 but the 中 scores were 之 minimal level. 會 Part of 療程 hematology study 有 change during 研究  The 提供 of this 人員 can provide 此類 clinical personnel 更 about the 參考訊息 of fatigue 相關 in hepatocellular 以協助 patients receiving 不適 radiotherapy.
背景 : The 目的 of this 以 was to 空間 the response 放射 therapeutic results 及 advanced hepatocellular 肝癌 (HCC) treated 反應 three-dimensional conformal 治療 (3D-CRT) and 與   從 and Methods 月 From October 月 to September 晚期 thirty-three advanced 施行 patients who 空間 been treated 放射 3D-CRT and 治療 were reviewed. 平均 mean age 為 61.36 years 歲 (range:  空間 years old). 放射 CRT was 或 at 1.5 伏特 per fraction 以 6 or 天 MV photons, 次 a day 方式 5 days 總劑 week for 為 total dose 治療 45- 75 毫升 The mean 毫升 volume was 劑量 ml (range: 毫克 32.54-2094.82 ml). 毫克 dosage of 人 was 200 有 in 25 反應 300 mg/day 反應 5 patients, 放射 400 mg/day 內 3 patients.
Results 反應 Sixty-four percent 病患 1 complete 對非 (CR), 20 治療 response (PR)] 有 patients responded 將 淯T field?and 療效 (4/33; 4 腫瘤 of patients 態區 in  復 lesion? When 巨大 outcome was 肝癌 by the 併 tumor patterns, 及 responses of 發性 field?for the 對 tumor, huge 順形 HCC with 治療 lesions and 的 lesions were 分別 (8/10; 1 完全 7 PR), 反應 (5/7; 5 反應 61.5% (8/13; 反應 PR), and 穩定 (0/3; 2 進展 and 1 發性 respectively (p 腫瘤 0.234). Furthermore, 合 responses of 轉移 lesion?for the 多 tumor, huge 病灶 HCC with 治療 lesions and 的 lesions were 分別 (1/10; 1 反應 14.3% (1/7; 反應 PR), 15.4% 反應 2 PR), 均 0% (0/3; 病情 3 PD), 平均 (p = 存活 The mean 分別 median survival 天 were 327 後 242 days, 包括 The adverse 及 of 3D-CRT 皮疹 thalidomide include 水腫 (26/33, 78.8%), 病變 and sedation 起立 45.5%), skin 血壓 (11/33, 33.3%), 暫時性 extremity edema 障礙 60.6%), peripheral 上 (2/33, 6.1%), 我們 (1/33, 3.0%), 經驗 hypotension (1/33, 腫瘤 leukopenia (5/33, 切除 transient elevation 肝癌 liver function 空間 (9/33, 27.3%), 放射 epigastralgia (8/33, 合 : Our 是 concluded that 有效 combined with 治療 might be 資料 safe and 研究 treatment modality 順形 unresectable HCC 治療 The preliminary 併 showed quite 不 result. It 別 valuable to 肝癌 the potential 策略 of 3D-CRT 扮演 with thalidomide 角色 the treatment 價值 for HCC 有 various stages.
Purpose 背景 The purpose 目的 this study 以 to evaluate 空間 response and 放射 results of 及 hepatocellular carcinoma 肝癌 treated with 反應 conformal radiotherapy 治療 and thalidomide. 與  
Materials 從 Methods : 月 October 1999 月 September 2002, 晚期 advanced HCC 施行 who had 空間 treated with 放射 and thalidomide 治療 reviewed. The 平均 age was 為 years old 歲  36-80 空間 old). Three-dimensional 放射 was delivered 或 1.5 Gy 伏特 fraction using 以 or 10 天 photons, twice 次 day and 方式 days a 總劑 for a 為 dose of 治療 75 Gy. 毫升 mean treatment 毫升 was 369.59 劑量 (range:  毫克 ml). The 毫克 of thalidomide 人 200 mg/day 有 25 patients, 反應 mg/day in 反應 patients, and 放射 mg/day in 內 patients.
Results : 反應 percent [21/33; 病患 complete response 對非 20 partial 治療 (PR)] of 有 responded in 將 field?and 12.1% 療效 4 PR) 腫瘤 patients responded 態區  烋on-irradiated 復 When therapeutic 巨大 was determined 肝癌 the different 併 patterns, the 及 of 淯T 發性 the recurrent 對 huge mass, 順形 with metastatic 治療 and multiple 的 were 80.0% 分別 1 CR, 完全 PR), 71.4% 反應 5 PR), 反應 (8/13; 8 反應 and 0% 穩定 2 SD 進展 1 PD), 發性 (p = 腫瘤 Furthermore, the 合 of 烋on-irradiated 轉移 the recurrent 多 huge mass, 病灶 with metastatic 治療 and multiple 的 were 10.0% 分別 1 PR), 反應 (1/7; 1 反應 15.4% (2/13; 反應 PR), and 均 (0/3; all 病情 PD), respectively 平均 = 0.778). 存活 mean and 分別 survival times 天 327 and 後 days, respectively. 包括 adverse effects 及 3D-CRT and 皮疹 include constipation 水腫 78.8%), drowsiness 病變 sedation (15/33, 起立 skin rash 血壓 33.3%), lower 暫時性 edema (20/33, 障礙 peripheral neuropathy 上 6.1%), dizziness 我們 3.0%), orthostatic 經驗 (1/33, 3.0%), 腫瘤 (5/33, 15.2%), 切除 elevation in 肝癌 function tests 空間 27.3%), and 放射 (8/33, 24.2%).
Conclusions 合 Our experience 是 that 3D-CRT 有效 with thalidomide 治療 be a 資料 and effective 研究 modality for 順形 HCC patients. 治療 preliminary data 併 quite promising 不 It is 別 to study 肝癌 potential role 策略 3D-CRT combined 扮演 thalidomide in 角色 treatment strategy 價值 HCC at 有 stages.
目的 : To 本院 treatment outcomes 於 patients under 於 years of 舌癌 with cancer 治療 the mobile 和 and Materials 年 Between January 年 and September 共有 35 patients 於 40 years 舌癌 age suffering 林口 mobile tongue 醫院 were treated 線 the LinKou 存活 Memorial Hospital 都 External beam 蹤 was used 而 either adjuvant 平均 after surgery 蹤 primary treatment. 為 patients were 的 for at 接受 three years 放射 until death. 至少 follow-up was 於 years.
External radiotherapy 追加 at least 有 Gy was 因拒 to all 或是 Twenty-eight patients 開刀 adjuvant radiotherapy. 放射 people who 一位 or were 放射 for surgery 復 treated with 接受 only. One 治療 underwent radiotherapy 用 primary therapy : required surgical 的 after recurrence. 分期 treatment results 方式 analyzed, as 全部 pre-treatment habits, 三年 staging, and 存活率 modalities.
Results : 疾病 three-year overall 及 and disease-specific 沒有 rates for 為 group were 的 and 48.2%, 三年 After excluding 存活率 who chose 疾病 to undergo 及 as primary 及 the rates 開刀 50% and 病人 The median 存活 of all 位數 and patients 年 received primary 外科 was 1.42 首選 3.26 years, 有六例 In all 成功 who did 控制 undergo surgery 都 primary treatment, 月 tumor control 另 not achieved, 接受 all died 治療 16 months, 放射 for one 後 experienced complete 緩解 after induction 局部 and concurrent 單變數 Univariate analysis 以 that primary 第一 1997 AJCC 分期 group III 或 IV and 病理 differentiation significantly 影響 overall survival. 預 analysis found 多 poor histological 僅有 was the 的 significant factor 顯著 overall survival.
Conclusions 和文 These findings 病人 with those 治療 other series 較 the age 的 studied. Surgery 並沒有 to be 差異 first-line, primary 應 for patients 於 40 years 舌癌 age with 第一 of the 選擇 tongue.
Purpose 目的 To evaluate 本院 outcomes in 於 under 40 於 of age 舌癌 cancer of 治療 mobile tongue.
Method 和 Materials : 年 January 1990 年 September 1999, 共有 patients under 於 years of 舌癌 suffering from 林口 tongue cancers 醫院 treated at 線 LinKou Chang-Gung 存活 Hospital (LK-CGMH). 都 beam radiotherapy 蹤 used as 而 adjuvant management 平均 surgery or 蹤 treatment. All 為 were followed 的 at least 接受 years or 放射 death. Median 至少 was 1.35 於 radiotherapy of 追加 least 60 有 was administered 因拒 all patients. 或是 patients received 開刀 radiotherapy. Six 放射 who refused 一位 were unsuitable 放射 surgery were 復 with radiotherapy 接受 One patient 治療 radiotherapy as 用 therapy but : surgical salvage 的 recurrence. The 分期 results were 方式 as were 全部 habits, tumor 三年 and treatment 存活率 : The 疾病 overall survival 及 disease-specific survival 沒有 for the 為 were 42.8%, 的 48.2%, respectively. 三年 excluding patients 存活率 chose not 疾病 undergo surgery 及 primary treatment, 及 rates were 開刀 and 57.6%. 病人 median survival 存活 all patients 位數 patients who 年 primary surgery 外科 1.42 and 首選 years, respectively. 有六例 all patients 成功 did not 控制 surgery as 都 treatment, tongue 月 control was 另 achieved, and 接受 died within 治療 months, except 放射 one who 後 complete remission 緩解 induction chemotherapy 局部 concurrent chemo-radiation. 單變數 analysis indicated 以 primary surgery, 第一 AJCC staging 分期 III or 或 and histological 病理 significantly affected 影響 survival. Multivariate 預 found that 多 histological differentiation 僅有 the only 的 factor affecting 顯著 survival.
Conclusions : 和文 findings concur 病人 those of 治療 series for 較 age group 的 Surgery continues 並沒有 be the 差異 primary treatment 應 patients under 於 years of 舌癌 with cancer 第一 the mobile 選擇
: : Carcinoma : the esophagus : a virulent . often diagnosed . its late . Despite aggressive . resection, the . 5-year survival ( is poor. ( researchers have ) the use ) concurrent chemoradiotherapy ) in the . of esophageal . and demonstrated . significant survival . We conducted : pilot study : evaluate the : and toxicity . an outpatient . regimen using . cisplatin as . radiosensitizer. 
Materials . Methods : ( retrospectively reviewed ( charts of ) with esophageal ) treated at ( institution from ( 1999 to ( 2003. Patients ) included in ) study if . had T3 . T4, N0, . M0 stage . There were . patients enrolled ( definite concurrent ( (CCRT) with ( adjuvant chemotherapy ) whereas eleven ) into radiation . (RT) group. . for both ( was delivered ( total dose ( 60 Gy. ) addition to ) the CCRT ( received concurrent ( consisting of ( weekly doses ) CDDP (30 ) CCRT was . by adjuvant . consisting of . monthly cycles . CDDP (20 . plus 5-FU : mg/m2/day) for : consecutive days. . study looked . survival, treatment . toxicity and . of failure . enrolled patients.
Results ( A total ( 27 patients ( the study ) The most ) symptom, present ( over 90%, ( progressive dysphagia. ) therapy, 88% ) of patients ) CCRT and . (9/11) receiving . had symptom ( There are ( differences between ( two groups . vs. RT) . terms of ) survival (15 ) vs. 5 ( 2-year survival ( vs. 18%, ( = 0.003) . local regional . rate (43% ) 100%, p ) 0.003). Both ) hematological and ( toxicities developed ( the two . are generally . and acceptable. . : In ) preliminary study, ) have demonstrated ( a weekly ( CCRT regimen . low-dose cisplatin, . by 4 . of adjuvant ) with cisplatin ) 5-FU, improves . and locoregional . of locally . esophageal cancer . acceptable toxicity. . prospective randomized : of this : are warranted.
Purpose : Carcinoma of : esophagus is : virulent malignancy . diagnosed in . late stage. . aggressive surgical . the overall . survival reported ( poor. Several ( have investigated ) use of ) chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) ) the management . esophageal cancer . demonstrated a . survival improvement. . conducted a : study to : the efficacy : toxicity of . outpatient CCRT . using weekly . as a . 
Materials and . : We ( reviewed the ( of patients ) esophageal carcinoma ) at our ( from July ( to February ( Patients were ) in the ) if they . T3 to . N0, and . stage disease. . were sixteen . enrolled into ( concurrent chemoradiotherapy ( with systemic ( chemotherapy group ) eleven patients ) radiation alone . group. RT . both groups ( delivered with ( dose of ( Gy. In ) to RT, ) CCRT group ( concurrent chemotherapy ( of 6 ( doses of ) (30 mg/m2). ) was followed . adjuvant chemotherapy . of 4 . cycles of . (20 mg/m2/day) . 5-FU (1000 : for 5 : days. This . looked at . treatment response, . and pattern . failure in . patients.
Results : ( total of ( patients fulfilled ( study criteria. ) most frequent ) present in ( 90%, was ( dysphagia. During ) 88% (14/16) ) patients on ) and 81% . receiving RT . symptom relief. ( are significant ( between the ( groups (CCRT . RT) in . of median ) (15 months ) 5 months), ( survival (57% ( 18%, p ( 0.003) and . regional failure . (43% vs. ) p = ) Both the ) and non-hematological ( developed in ( two groups . generally comparable . acceptable. 
Conclusion . In this ) study, we ) demonstrated that ( weekly outpatient ( regimen using . cisplatin, followed . 4 cycles . adjuvant chemotherapy ) cisplatin and ) improves survival . locoregional control . locally advanced . cancer with . toxicity. Large-scale, . randomized trials : this regimen : warranted.
黑色素 continues to 人類 debated whether 是 are photoprotecting 或 photosensitizing in 長 skin cells. 仍 studies have 爭議 that dark-skinned 的 are much 深膚色 susceptible than 白種 to ultraviolet 因 skin damage 發皮膚 both non-melanoma 黑色素瘤 melanoma skin 皮膚 On the 機會 hand, melanin, 然而 intermediates and 研究 can generate 黑色素 species when 產物 with UV 驅物 and have 紫外 shown to 會產生 effective photosensitizers. 質 last decade 黑色素 witnessed a 有效 and unprecedented 致敏劑 in melanin 來 that has 與 expanded our 研究 of this 更加 Melanin is 黑色素 highly irregular 與 consisting of 是 units derived 胺 the enzymatic 所 of the 單元體 acid tyrosine. 高度 are two 之 types of 包含 eumelanin and 及 Now, it 是 proved that 保護 are the 而 photoprotective pigment 線 the epidermis 會產生 pheomelanins are 黑色素 upon irradiation. 輻射 same situation 有類 also true 不僅 ionizing radiation 保護 eumelanin not 也 possesses radiation 保護 effect but 床上 contains photoprotective 惡性 Since malignant 之 is resistant 的 radiation therapy, 因此 strategies targeted 色素 the melanogenesis 過程 eumelanin may 增進 potential benefit 的 the radiation 效果 of malignant 的
It 黑色素 to be 人類 whether melanins 是 photoprotecting or 或 in human 長 cells. Epidemiologic 仍 have demonstrated 爭議 dark-skinned people 的 much less 深膚色 than Caucasians 白種 ultraviolet (UV)-induced 因 damage including 發皮膚 non-melanoma and 黑色素瘤 skin cancer. 皮膚 the other 機會 melanin, its 然而 and precursors 研究 generate reactive-oxygen 黑色素 when irradiated 產物 UV irradiation 驅物 have been 紫外 to be 會產生 photosensitizers. 
The 質 decade has 黑色素 a renewed 有效 unprecedented impetus 致敏劑 melanin research 來 has significantly 與 our knowledge 研究 this field. 更加 is a 黑色素 irregular heteropolymer 與 of monomeric 是 derived from 胺 enzymatic oxidation 所 the amino 單元體 tyrosine. There 高度 two distinct 之 of melanin, 包含 and pheomelanin. 及 it is 是 that eumelanins 保護 the main 而 pigment in 線 epidermis and 會產生 are phototoxic 黑色素 irradiation. 
The 輻射 situation is 有類 true for 不僅 radiation that 保護 not only 也 radiation protective 保護 but also 床上 photoprotective ability. 惡性 malignant melanoma 之 resistant to 的 therapy, therapeutic 因此 targeted to 色素 melanogenesis of 過程 may have 增進 benefit for 的 radiation therapy 效果 malignant melanoma.
目的 : Electron 射束 radiation therapy 表淺 one of 有利 most potential 因為 modality for 可以 of superficial 深度 As the 適合 energy used 而 the treatment 的 chosen based 所 the depth, 的 underlying normal 比 can be 方式 more compared 劑量 photon beam 很多 Furthermore, electron 也 has become 在 employed in 病人 body irradiation 的 boost chest 於 for treatment 也 bone marrow 的 leukemia. Hence, 多 therapy using 方式 beams have 來 increasing important 在 and applications 上 clinical use. 且 and Methods 與 In this 此次 the effective 加速器 of different 離腔 energies at 利用 depths were 依 using linear 不同 parallel plate 在 chamber, electrometer 劑量 solid water 劑量 The dosimetric 劑量 of different 劑量 cones and 的 were measured 並探 surface, and 能量 90%, 80%, 間 dose depth. 的 dosimetric variations 及 applications under 由 energies and 電子錐筒 period were 有效 discussed. 
Results 距離 The results 愈高 that: the 射源 the electron 也 size and 電子 the larger 表面 electron effective 最大 The results 百分之九十 effective SSD 百分之八十 at maximum, 深度 80% dose 的 showed negligible 接近 within 2%. 在 effective SSD 在 at surface 百分之五十 50% dose 相差 showed a 達 difference about 使用 : In 射源 the central 平方 axis dose 方法 for the 中軸之劑 effective SSD 皆 with inverse 劑量 law uses 為 maximum depth 分別 reference point. 百分比 this study, 深度 measurements at 並 percentage depth 圖 point were 希望 to clearly 直線 the dosimetry 能 of electron 其 and improve 了解 of the 分布 distributions, thus 病人 the patient 更臻 plans.
Purpose 目的 Electron beam 射束 therapy is 表淺 of the 有利 potential treatment 因為 for treatment 可以 superficial tumor. 深度 the electron 適合 used in 而 treatment is 的 based on 所 depth, the 的 normal tissues 比 be spared 方式 compared to 劑量 beam therapy. 很多 electron beam 也 become frequently 在 in total 病人 irradiation to 的 chest wall 於 treatment of 也 marrow transplant, 的 Hence, radiation 多 using electron 方式 have shown 來 important role 在 applications in 上 use. 
Materials 且 Methods : 與 this study, 此次 effective SSD 加速器 different electron 離腔 at various 利用 were investigated 依 linear accelerator, 不同 plate ion 在 electrometer and 劑量 water phantom. 劑量 dosimetric properties 劑量 different electron 劑量 and energies 的 measured at 並探 and maximum, 能量 80%, 50% 間 depth. The 的 variations and 及 under varied 由 and output 電子錐筒 were then 有效 
Results : 距離 results showed 愈高 the larger 射源 electron cone 也 and energy, 電子 larger the 表面 effective SSD. 最大 results of 百分之九十 SSD measured 百分之八十 maximum, 90%, 深度 dose depth 的 negligible difference 接近 2%. The 在 SSD measured 在 surface and 百分之五十 dose depth 相差 a larger 達 about +5.04%.
Conclusions 使用 In general, 射源 central beam 平方 dose correction 方法 the electron 中軸之劑 SSD applied 皆 inverse square 劑量 uses the 為 depth as 分別 point. In 百分比 study, the 深度 at different 並 depth dose 圖 were tabulated 希望 clearly state 直線 dosimetry characteristics 能 electron beams 其 improve understanding 了解 the dosimetric 分布 thus perfecting 病人 patient treatment 更臻
目的 : To 使用 the dose 的 of vaginal 療器 with different 的 of cylindrical 及 source positions 在 optimized dose 治療 and Methods 對 When using 佈 applicator for 材料 brachytherapy, ABS 依據 Brachytherapy Society) 使用 treatment report 療器 the vaginal 治療 dose and 採用 dose at 及 mm beneath 為 The affecting 外側 for dose 評估 is this 的 include: diameter 有圓柱 vaginal cylinder, 直徑 positions and . dose points.
Results 點 Vaginal applicator 距 smaller diameter 劑量點 cm) has 交叉 higher average 劑量 dose (173.6 的 vs. 127.3 直徑 and a 直徑 inhomogeneous dose 較 (standard deviation 表面 cGy vs. . cGy) than 不均 larger one 劑量 cm). When 標準 interval of 在 dose points 中 increasing to 劑量 mm, the 由 at surface 直徑 point increased 頂點 with the 增加 diameter applicator. 射源 interval of 的 dwelling positions 亦 in a 劑量 of dose 若 apex point. 劑量點 was a 方式 dose enhancement 高達 off-surface dose 劑量 when optimized 臨 points were 使用 : When 器作 single-channeled applicator 治療 vaginal brachytherapy, 大 cylinder with 狀裝 diameter will 得到 in more 勻 dose distribution.
Purpose 目的 To evaluate 使用 dose distribution 的 vaginal brachytherapy 療器 different diameters 的 cylindrical applicator, 及 positions and 在 dose points.
Materials 治療 Methods : 對 using cylindrical 佈 for vaginal 材料 ABS (American 依據 Society) recommended 使用 report with 療器 vaginal surface 治療 and the 採用 at 5 及 beneath mucosa. 為 affecting factors 外側 dose optimization 評估 this study 的 diameter of 有圓柱 cylinder, source 直徑 and optimized . points.
Results : 點 applicator with 距 diameter (1.5 劑量點 has a 交叉 average surface 劑量 (173.6 cGy 的 127.3 cGy) 直徑 a more 直徑 dose distribution 較 deviation 31.8 表面 vs. 11.7 . than a 不均 one (3.5 劑量 When the 標準 of optimized 在 points was 中 to 10 劑量 the dose 由 surface apex 直徑 increased 28% 頂點 the larger 增加 applicator. Increasing 射源 of source 的 positions resulted 亦 a rise 劑量 dose at 若 point. There 劑量點 a 70% 方式 enhancement at 高達 dose point 劑量 optimized dose 臨 were re-arranged.
Conclusions 使用 When utilizing 器作 applicator for 治療 brachytherapy, a 大 with larger 狀裝 will result 得到 more homogenous 勻 distribution.
腦膜 hemangiopericytoma is 外皮 rare tumor 中樞神 central nervous 的 (CNS), consisting 之一 less than 小 percent in 百分比 It has 特性 characteristics of 發展 slow in 復 progression and 且易 in tumor 神經 Unlike other 遠處 tumor, there 案例 also risk 的 neuroaxis and 復 metastasis. Due 接受 repeated recurrence, 完整 presented case 之 received two 間 courses of 為 to tumor 於 with an 重疊 of five 區域 The cumulative 一百 in the 於 region of 治療 is greater 後 100Gy, overt 進展式 necrosis developed 神經症 progressive neurologic 內壓 at seven 再次 after second 手術 After surgical 發現 and removal 細胞 necrotic mass, 病理 patient is 且 alive at 無 with improved 細胞 symptoms. As 病患 matter of 減輕 this patient 存活 been alive 發現 over 14 腫瘤 since the 已 time that 十四年 found out 腦部 her brain 治療 After review 發生 papers, we 死 that radiation 經文獻 brain necrosis 吾人 be expected 為 reirradiation, but 的 every case 經重 results in 治療 necrosis with 發展 severe neurologic 不 or mortality. 神經 there is 考慮 benefit and/or 病患 improvement, reirradiation 生命 the CNS 複 be considered 放射 selected case.
Meningeal 腦膜 is a 外皮 tumor in 中樞神 nervous system 的 consisting of 之一 than one 小 in incidence. 百分比 has distinctive 特性 of being 發展 in tumor 復 and high 且易 tumor recurrence. 神經 other CNS 遠處 there exists 案例 risk of 的 and distant 復 Due to 接受 recurrence, the 完整 case had 之 two full 間 of irradiation 為 tumor bed 於 an interval 重疊 five years. 區域 cumulative dose 一百 the overlapped 於 of brain 治療 greater than 後 overt brain 進展式 developed with 神經症 neurologic symptoms 內壓 seven months 再次 second radiotherapy. 手術 surgical decompression 發現 removal of 細胞 mass, the 病理 is still 且 at present 無 improved neurologic 細胞 As a 病患 of fact, 減輕 patient has 存活 alive for 發現 14 years 腫瘤 the first 已 that she 十四年 out about 腦部 brain tumor. 治療 review of 發生 we conclude 死 radiation induced 經文獻 necrosis may 吾人 expected in 為 but not 的 case reirradiated 經重 in brain 治療 with clinically 發展 neurologic deficit 不 mortality. If 神經 is survival 考慮 and/or symptomatic 病患 reirradiation in 生命 CNS may 複 considered in 放射 case.
目的 : To 探討以 the results 治療 salvage treatment 後 recurrent nasopharyngeal 發 (NPC) using 鼻咽癌 Knife radiosurgery 結果 alone or 與 with conventional 自 and methods 年 From 1993 十一位 1997, eleven 男五女 (6 males 後 5 females) 發 diagnosed to 鼻咽癌 recurrent tumors 病患 the primary 加馬刀 of nasopharynx 手術 skull base 首次 our hospital 與 initial radiotherapy. 的 time interval 隔 the primary 是 and salvage 十二年 was 1 二年 12 years 的 = 2.0 劑量 All patients 至 single fraction 腫瘤 Gamma Knife 體積 was performed 從 peripheral doses 於 12.5 to 中位值 Gy (median 所照 15 Gy) 是 cover the 中位值 tumor as 回溯 as possible. 這些 tumor volumes 根據 were less 種類 1 to 不同 cc (median 分為 11cc) whereas 有 volumes (RV) 四位 6 to 僅 cc (median 加馬刀 20.9 cc). 無 the patients 傳統 divided into 組 groups according 七名 their treatment. 除加馬 patients received 接受 without further 的 (Group A). 外放 other 7 劑量 received hyperfractionated 中位值 beam radiotherapy 同步化 30 to 療 Gy (median 是 38 Gy) 組 concurrent chemotherapy 所有 5-FU, mitomycin 都 for further 完成 of the 治療 (Group B).
Result 無明顯 All patients 急性 GK well 在 significant acute 有 The first 檢查 after GK 病人 tumor regression 八位 eight out 都 nine patients 腫瘤 this examination. 小 patient died 組 sepsis induced 中 concurrent chemotherapy, 一位 receiving fractionated 死 For the 同步化 3 patients 引起 GK without 血症 RT (group 在 2 tumors 月 7 and 死亡 months later 兩位 one patient 病人 to image 十五 and expired 月 6 months 復 GK. Five 在 of seven 病人 of group 有 remained local 病人 at the 長 image follow-up 控制 to 62 但 after GK). 其中 three patients 三位 this group 在 had prominent 治療 damage shown 上 MRI and 有 scan after 的 irradiation. The 損傷 survival of 病人 our patients 中位 48.8 months. 為 five-year survival 月 is 36.4%.
Conclusion 存活率 Combined fractionated 結論 GK radiosurgery 併 concurrent chemotherapy 放療 to achieve 同步化 local control 療對 intracranially recurrent 發 than GK 似乎 It is 比單 recommended to 達 single-fraction radiosurgery 較 salvage a 的 diagnosed skull 分次 recurrent NPC. 宜 opposing fields 用 fractionated RT 對照 be avoided 照野 lower the 腦部 of late complications.
Purpose 目的 To report 探討以 results of 治療 treatment of 後 nasopharyngeal cancers 發 using Gamma 鼻咽癌 radiosurgery (GK) 結果 or combined 與 conventional radiotherapy.
Materials 自 methods : 年 1993 to 十一位 eleven patients 男五女 males and 後 females) were 發 to have 鼻咽癌 tumors over 病患 primary site 加馬刀 nasopharynx and/or 手術 base at 首次 hospital after 與 radiotherapy. The 的 interval between 隔 primary radiotherapy 是 salvage GK 十二年 1 to 二年 years (median 的 2.0 years). 劑量 patients received 至 fraction of 腫瘤 Knife radiosurgery 體積 performed with 從 doses of 於 to 20 中位值 (median = 所照 Gy) to 是 the recurrent 中位值 as conformal 回溯 possible. The 這些 volumes (TV) 根據 less than 種類 to 33 不同 (median = 分為 whereas radiation 有 (RV) were 四位 to 48 僅 (median = 加馬刀 cc). Retrospectively 無 patients were 傳統 into two 組 according to 七名 treatment. Four 除加馬 received GK 接受 further radiotherapy 的 A). The 外放 7 patients 劑量 hyperfractionated external 中位值 radiotherapy of 同步化 to 47 療 (median = 是 Gy) and 組 chemotherapy (cisplatin, 所有 mitomycin C) 都 further boost 完成 the tumor 治療 B).
Result : 無明顯 patients tolerated 急性 well without 在 acute toxicity. 有 first MRI 檢查 GK showed 病人 regression for 八位 out of 都 patients receiving 腫瘤 examination. One 小 died of 組 induced by 中 chemotherapy, not 一位 fractionated RT. 死 the other 同步化 patients receiving 引起 without combined 血症 (group A), 在 tumors recurred 月 and 15 死亡 later and 兩位 patient lost 病人 image follow-up 十五 expired within 月 months after 復 Five out 在 seven patients 病人 group B 有 local control 病人 the last 長 follow-up (6 控制 62 months 但 GK). However, 其中 patients of 三位 group of 在 prominent brain 治療 shown by 上 and PET 有 after salvage 的 The median 損傷 of all 病人 patients is 中位 months. The 為 survival rate 月 36.4%.
Conclusion : 存活率 fractionated RT, 結論 radiosurgery and 併 chemotherapy seem 放療 achieve better 同步化 control for 療對 recurrent NPC 發 GK alone. 似乎 is not 比單 to use 達 radiosurgery to 較 a newly 的 skull base 分次 NPC. Bilateral 宜 fields in 用 RT should 對照 avoided to 照野 the incidence 腦部 late complications.
目的 : The 之 of this 評估 is to 放射 the quality 的 life of 與 with nasopharyngeal 年 after treatment 年 radiotherapy.
Materials and 共有 : From 三十二位 2001 to 被 2002, three 參 and thirty-two 病患 cancer patients 結束 two institutions 月 invited to 及 Health- related 生活 of life 作為 assessed 3 依據 or later 簡單 the completion 而言 the treatment 後 means of 」 European Organization 疼痛 Research and * of Cancer 負相關 Core Quality 變項 Life Questionnaire 顯著 C-30) and 為 EORTC head * neck cancer-specific * (QLQ H&N-35). * : Pain * = -0.194***), 問題 loss (r * -0.165**), dry 問題 (r = 達 sexuality (r 差異 
-0.138*), sticky 為 (r = 簡單關 social eating 效果 = -0.108*), 將時間 weight (r 分類 0.107*) and 後 of open 月 (r = 治療 revealed significance 月 changes over 月 by simple 治療 analysis. In 至 to understand 及 effects of 五年 simple correlation, 利用 periods between 異數 of radiotherapy 發現 patients filling 張嘴 the questionnaire 使用 divided to 」 groups: 3-6 體重 6-12 months, 三項 years and 有 than 5 因此 All items 再進 three (problem 生活 open mouth, 依其 of painkiller 階段 gain weight) 予以 statistical significance 四種 one-way ANOVA 遞 Hence, all 「 and symptoms 」 over time 」 divided into 波浪 types: increasing, 分析 U type, 之 W wave 改變 
Conclusions : 結論 study suggest 依 detailed information 階段 the changes 品質 time may 之 us in 於 with patients 病患 in design 並可進 intervention studies 著重 on improvement 放射 the supportive 之 and rehabilitation 及 patients with 方面 carcinoma after radiotherapy.
Purpose 目的 The purpose 之 this study 評估 to evaluate 放射 quality of 的 of patients 與 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 年 treatment with 年 and Methods 共有 From March 三十二位 to November 被 three hundred 參 thirty-two nasopharyngeal 病患 patients in 結束 institutions were 月 to participation. 及 related quality 生活 life was 作為 3 months 依據 later after 簡單 completion of 而言 treatment by 後 of the 」 Organization for 疼痛 and Treatment * Cancer (EORTC) 負相關 Quality of 變項 Questionnaire (QLQ 顯著 and the 為 head and * cancer-specific questionnaire * H&N-35). 
Results * Pain (r * -0.194***), weight 問題 (r = * dry mouth 問題 = -0.155**), 達 (r = 差異 sticky saliva 為 = -0.130*), 簡單關 eating (r 效果 -0.108*), gain 將時間 (r = 分類 and problem 後 open mouth 月 = 0.105*) 治療 significance with 月 over time 月 simple correlation 治療 In order 至 understand the 及 of non-linear 五年 correlation, the 利用 between completion 異數 radiotherapy and 發現 filling in 張嘴 questionnaire were 使用 to 4 」 3-6 months, 體重 months, 1-5 三項 and more 有 5 years. 因此 items but 再進 (problem of 生活 mouth, administration 依其 painkiller and 階段 weight) showed 予以 significance by 四種 ANOVA analysis. 遞 all items 「 symptoms changing 」 time were 」 into four 波浪 increasing, decreasing, 分析 type, and 之 wave type. 改變 : Our 結論 suggest that 依 information about 階段 changes over 品質 may help 之 in communication 於 patients and 病患 design of 並可進 studies focusing 著重 improvement of 放射 supportive care 之 rehabilitation of 及 with nasopharyngeal 方面 after radiotherapy.
: : to : factors related : tabooed foods : cancer patients ? to study ? motivation and ? of tabooed . from patients?view . so that . may accept : knowledge about : control and : support via . positive communication . and Methods . From November . 1997 to . of 1999, . from 872 . cancer patients . collected at . of Radiation . Lin-Kou Chang . Memorial Hospital. . were requested . answer a : of questions : well-designed questionnaire. : was done ( , namely, ( week at ( beginning and ) months after ) entire course ) radiotherapy.
Results : ( to cancer ( 24 cases ( had no ( food while ) cases (74.7%) ) this taboo ) experiencing malignancy. . food were . of several . Of these, . cases (37.3%) . that nutritional . may help ( growing of ( masses while ( cases (16.1%) ) that cancer ) communicable via ) food together ) one another. ( patients unable ( prove a ( significant correlation ) a special ) of patients ) the development . above-mentioned misconcepts . the effect . certain food ( on the ( of malignant ( (p ＞ ＞ However, patients ＞ age above ＞ year old ) that meats ) toxic to ) human body ) related to . development (p . 0.05).
Discussion : . radiotherapy, each ( received nutrition ( from dietitian ( nursing staff ＜ balanced diets. ＜ patients may ＜ adopt their ) view point ) diet control. ) chance for . curative attempt . management may . compromised provided . patients failed : receive adequate : support during : which may . loss of . weight, impairment . general immunity . toxicity related . of treatment. . professionals should, . try their . to offer . accurate knowledge . nutrition and . clarify the . taboos of foods.
Purpose : to evaluate : related to : foods in : patients and ? study the ? and concept ? tabooed foods . patients?view point . that patients . accept correct : about diet : and nutritional : via a . communication skill.
Materials . Methods : . November of . to October . 1999, data . 872 irradiated . patients were . at Dept. . Radiation Oncology, . Chang Gung . Hospital. Patients . requested to . a series : questions from : questionnaire. This : done twice ( namely, first ( at the ( and 6 ) after the ) course of ) : prior ( cancer attack, ( cases (2.8%) ( no tabooed ( while 651 ) (74.7%) had ) taboo after ) malignancy. Tabooed . were usually . several kinds. . these, 325 . (37.3%) considered . nutritional supplements . help the ( of tumor ( while 140 ( (16.1%) suspected ) cancer is ) via taking ) together with ) another. From ( unable to ( a statistically ( correlation between ) special subset ) patients and ) development of . misconcepts toward . effect of . food intake ( the growing ( malignant tumors ( ＞ 0.05). ＞ patients with ＞ above 60 ＞ old regarded ) meats were ) to normal ) body and ) to cancer . (p ＜ . : During . each patient ( nutrition education ( dietitian and ( staff concerning ＜ diets. Yet, ＜ may still ＜ their own ) point of ) control. The ) for a . attempt of . may be . provided that . failed to : adequate nutritional : during radiotherapy : may cause . of body . impairment of . immunity or . related interruption . treatment. Health . should, therefore, . their best . offer patients . knowledge of . and to . the inappropriate . of foods.
成對 wedged-pair setup 是 two cross-fired 使用 fields is 技術 common practice 成對 radiation therapy 方位 achieve a 在 dose distribution 的 the irradiation 而且   劑量  It 的 a simple 楔化 to keep 楔形 radiation dose 取決 the distal 野之間 tissue below 傳統 half of 放射 tumor dose. 床 The optimum 度 angle depends 的 the hinge 的 between the 很 fields.  但此 hinge angle 複 be easily 放射 in conventional 治療 radiation planning, 角度 the two 的 fields are 方位 coplanar with 復 couch set 非同 0? 90?or 夾角  In 另外 3D radiation 之 hinge angle 同一 difficult to 相對 calculated.  如要 addition, the 厚薄 orientations are 同一 likely not 形成 to one 位置  An 非同 mathematics formula 自旋 align two 某 fields into 角度 orientation in 對 space is 三度 and implemented 互相 a computer 研究  The 楔化 program requires 及 two parameters, 此 angle and 向量 angle, for 程式 of the 此 fields.  兩組 calculates the 照野 angles of 角度 wedged-pair fields 角度 aligns the 後 direction and 提供 isocenter on 準值 single plane. 角度 It also 的 the hinge 對位 of the 的 fields and 上 a wedge 楔化照 for optimal 空間 distribution.  最佳化 the reduction 角度 the try-and-error 可以 of collimator 治療 angle setting, 試 program increases 正確 efficiency and 時間 of an 治療 3D radiation 與 planning.
A 成對 setup of 是 cross-fired radiation 使用 is a 技術 practice in 成對 therapy to 方位 a homogeneous 在 distribution over 的 irradiation volume. 而且   劑量 It is 的 simple way 楔化 keep the 楔形 dose to 取決 distal normal 野之間 below one 傳統 of the 放射 dose.  床 optimum wedge 度 depends on 的 hinge angle 的 the wedged-pair 很  The 但此 angle can 複 easily determined 放射 conventional 2D 治療 planning, because 角度 two wedged-pair 的 are usually 方位 with treatment 復 set at 非同 90?or 270? 夾角 In non-coplanar 另外 radiation planning, 之 angle is 同一 to be 相對  In 如要 the wedge 厚薄 are most 同一 not opposed 形成 one another. 位置 An accurate 非同 formula to 自旋 two wedged-pair 某 into coplanar 角度 in 3D 對 is derived 三度 implemented into 互相 computer program. 研究 The optimization 楔化 requires only 及 parameters, gantry 此 and couch 向量 for each 程式 the wedged-pair 此  It 兩組 the collimator 照野 of the 角度 fields and 角度 the wedge 後 and the 提供 on a 準值 plane.  角度 also calculates 的 hinge angle 對位 the wedged-pair 的 and suggests 上 wedge angle 楔化照 optimal dose 空間  Through 最佳化 reduction of 角度 try-and-error optimization 可以 collimator angle/wedge 治療 setting, this 試 increases the 正確 and throughput 時間 an interactive 治療 radiation therapy 與
目的 : This 影像 is to 整合 the laborious 蒙地 of converting 中 data sets 簡化 the simulation 斷層 via integrating 建立 DICOM-compliant image 的 system with 與 Carlo Simulation.
Materials 本 Methods : 蒙地 BEAMnrc Monte 統作 code is 劑量 for dose 軟體 in this 助開 A DICOM-compliant 及 archiving system 自行 implemented using 程式 software with 的 personal computers. 人 software has 作出 developed in-house 標準 provide a 存取 console to 透過 the 3D 容易 phantom from 網頁 data.
Results : 方式 architecture of 影像 image archiving 量 is open 所 any modalities 假體 specific DICOM 本 may be 系統 This system 開放架構 as a 任何 node for 之 and retrieval 造影 information stored 具有 DICOM databases. 檢索 retrieved images 功能 be viewed 資料 a Web 使用者 or distributed 瀏覽器 DICOM-compliant modalities. 查看 user can 的 issue the 或 to convert 操作 images into 影像 based phantoms 轉換 the Web-based 此 : This 存取 works well, 良好 integrates seamlessly 整合 existing systems 現有 image modalities, 設備 planning systems, 治療 BEAMnrc Monte 以及 code system.
Purpose 目的 This study 影像 to improve 整合 laborious process 蒙地 converting CT 中 sets into 簡化 simulation phantom 斷層 integrating a 建立 image archiving 的 with Monte 與 Simulation.
Materials & 本 : The 蒙地 Monte Carlo 統作 is used 劑量 dose calculations 軟體 this study. 助開 DICOM-compliant image 及 system is 自行 using open-source 程式 with inexpensive 的 computers. Web-base 人 has been 作出 in-house to 標準 a user-friendly 存取 to build 透過 3D patient 容易 from CT 網頁 : The 方式 of this 影像 archiving system 量 open and 所 modalities supporting 假體 DICOM services 本 be attached. 系統 system acts 開放架構 a central 任何 for query 之 retrieval of 造影 stored in 具有 databases. These 檢索 images can 功能 viewed inside 資料 Web browser 使用者 distributed among 瀏覽器 modalities. The 查看 can also 的 the command 或 convert these 操作 into CT 影像 phantoms inside 轉換 Web-based console.
Conclusion 此 This system 存取 well, and 良好 seamlessly with 整合 systems including 現有 modalities, treatment 設備 systems, and 治療 Monte Carlo 以及 system.
目的 : To 二度 the accuracy 空間 dose calculation 計畫 lung cancer 不均 planning using 考量 radiotherapy (2D-RT) 評估 inhomogeneity correction, 放射 inhomogeneity correction 的 use of 與 Law Tissue-Air 以 Method (Power 用人 Method), and 人體 conformal radiotherapy 參考 with inhomogeneity 使用 The latter 包覆 takes into 其維持 in convolution 再 
Materials and 發光 : Treatment 於 planned based 作劑 Alderson-Rando phantom 讀並 in an 照射 device. Doses 的 calculated on 來 release 2.0 二度 system both 比法 2D-RT and 及 and irradiation 空間 performed on 計畫 C-Series 600C 給予 accelerator, 6MV 結果 Thermoluminescent dosimeters 顯示 were placed 空間 the target 計畫 compare the 組織 based on 修正 method. The 測出 dose was180 較 in isocenter.
Results 的 The delivered 與 by using 照野 planning and 於 with Power 而 Method correction 放射 closer to 由 prescribed dose 考量 cGy, 172 勻度 in a 所測 x 5 劑量 field and 的 cGy, 174 的 in a 與 x 10 × field). The 的 dose by 結論 2D-RT planning 肺部 heterogeneity correction 的 significantly higher 的 cGy and 方式 cGy). 
Conclusion 的 Dose variation 雖然 measurement and 情況 is due 組織 tissue inhomogenity, 修正 in the 勻度 Power Law 效果 accounts with 並未 inhomogeneity but 勻度 with the 的 shape of 散射 tissue. 3-D 三度 planning with 治療 correction based 二度 CT image, 治療 more accurate 能 Use of 肺部 planning in 的 cancer should 及 the risk 提供 radiation side 的 while optimizing 少 to the 作用
Purpose 目的 To evaluate 二度 accuracy of 空間 calculation in 計畫 cancer treatment 不均 using Two-dimensional 考量 (2D-RT) without 評估 correction, with 放射 correction by 的 of Power 與 Tissue-Air Ratio 以 (Power Law 用人 and Three-dimensional 人體 radiotherapy (3D-CRT) 參考 inhomogeneity correction. 使用 latter method 包覆 into account 其維持 convolution algorithm. 再 and Methods 發光 Treatment was 於 based on 作劑 phantom held 讀並 an immobilization 照射 Doses were 的 on FOCUS 來 2.0 planning 二度 both for 比法 and 3D-CRT, 及 irradiation were 空間 on Varian 計畫 600C linear 給予 6MV x-ray. 結果 dosimeters (TLDs) 顯示 placed inside 空間 target to 計畫 the dose 組織 on each 修正 The prescribed 測出 was180 cGy 較 isocenter.
Results : 的 delivered doses 與 using 3D-CRT 照野 and 2D 於 Power Law 而 correction were 放射 to the 由 dose (173 考量 172 cGy 勻度 a 5 所測 5 cm2 劑量 and 175 的 174 cGy 的 a 10 與 10 cm2 × The delivered 的 by using 結論 planning without 肺部 correction was 的 higher (212 的 and 216 方式 
Conclusion : 的 variation between 雖然 and calculation 情況 due to 組織 inhomogenity, especially 修正 the lung. 勻度 Law Method 效果 with tissue 並未 but not 勻度 the 3D 的 of inhomogeneity 散射 3-D treatment 三度 with inhomogeneity 治療 based on 二度 image, delivers 治療 accurate dose. 能 of 3-D 肺部 in lung 的 should reduce 及 risk of 提供 side effects 的 optimizing delivery 少 the tumor.
目的 : The 目的 purpose of 自行 study is 鉛 estimate the 設計 effect for 實驗來 dose (PD) 對 a special 野外 block overhung 屏蔽 blocking tray 如何 phantom surface, 野外 find out 深度 PD on 緣距 , distance 的關 field edge, 與 energy.
Materials and 長 : Blocks 粗 different thickness, 製 7.5 and 寬 cm, and 為 length and 為 were made 且托盤 putting different 合金 of screws 距離 the blocks. 之 distance from 合金 surface to 研究 (BSTD) is 加速器 15 and 二種 cm for 射束 blocks. High 等效 photon beams 的 6 and 稱 MV generated 探討 SIEMENS KDS-2 . were used 電量計 this study. 假體量 field with 深度 field size 能量 10 ?10 時 was used 合金 all the 降低 Peripheral doses 為何 measured by 不同 a Farmer 距照 chamber and 對 solid phantom. 利用 charges were 搭配 by a 游離腔 500 electrometer. 在 for different 距照 BSTD, and 及 thickness were 深度 Nucletron water ㎝ system with 寬 c.c. R ㎝ chamber was ㎝ for measuring 塊 variations of 一次 with distances 經 field edge 的 depth. PD 與 and without 得知 were measured 塊 
Result and ㎝ : We 的 that block 最佳 BSTD equal 深度 25 cm 距邊 the PD 測量 When distance 在 field edge 情況 5 cm 野外 depth at 照野 cm, the 軸 relative to 劑量 (dose at 為 at central 合金 is 1.74% 比值 block, and ＝ 0.86% with ＝ for 6 鉛 The block 對 thickness of 效果 cm has 上述 best attenuation 測量 and reduce 不論 PD to 當量測 relative to 照野邊 . The 於 decreases as 地方 distance from 隨 edge increases. 逐漸 to the 該 edge, the 光子 drops initially 左右 depth, the 之 apperance at 深度 depth that 會 than the 若距 (depth of 緣 dose) of 就 central ray 變化 cm. Behind 將 dmax, the 而 increases gradually 緣 depth and 係 become nearly 增加 farther. The 下降 behavior of 實驗 PD is 此種 for 6 鉛 10 MV.
Conclussion 對照 From the 降低 we know 明顯 the blocks 其 obvious contribution 簡便 reducing the 容易 and that 優點 is used 臨 made easily, 使用 cost, but 缺點 is just 於 for small 照野 field. To 改良 the equipment 應用 better is 我們 object in 的 future.
Purpose 目的 The main 目的 of this 自行 is to 鉛 the attenuate 設計 for peripheral 實驗來 (PD) with 對 special designed 野外 overhung between 屏蔽 tray and 如何 surface, and 野外 out of 深度 on depth 緣距 distance from 的關 edge, and 與 and methods 長 Blocks with 粗 thickness, 4, 製 and 15 寬 and equal 為 and width 為 made by 且托盤 different length 合金 screws into 距離 blocks. The 之 from block 合金 to tray 研究 is 10, 加速器 and 25 二種 for the 射束 High energy 等效 beams of 的 and 10 稱 generated by 探討 KDS-2 Linac . used in 電量計 study. Asymmetric 假體量 with equivalent 深度 size of 能量 ?10 cm2 時 used for 合金 the measurements. 降低 doses were 為何 by using 不同 Farmer type 距照 and Acrylic 對 phantom. Ionization 利用 were collected 搭配 a Victoreen 游離腔 electrometer. PD 在 different depth, 距照 and block 及 were evaluated. 深度 water phantom ㎝ with 0.12 寬 R K ㎝ was used ㎝ measuring the 塊 of PD 一次 distances from 經 edge and 的 PD with 與 without block 得知 measured also. 塊 and Discussion ㎝ We find 的 block with 最佳 equal to 深度 cm decrease 距邊 PD most. 測量 distance from 在 edge is 情況 cm and 野外 at 5 照野 the PD 軸 to Dmax 劑量 at dmax) 為 central axis 合金 1.74% without 比值 and is ＝ with block ＝ 6 MV. 鉛 block with 對 of 15 效果 has the 上述 attenuation effect, 測量 reduce the 不論 to 0.45% 當量測 to Dmax 照野邊 The PD 於 as the 地方 from field 隨 increases. Close 逐漸 the field 該 the PD 光子 initially with 左右 the minimum 之 at the 深度 that deeper 會 the dmax 若距 of maximum 緣 of the 就 ray 0.5 變化 Behind the 將 the PD 而 gradually with 緣 and then 係 nearly constant 增加 The qualitative 下降 of the 實驗 is similar 此種 6 and 鉛 MV.
Conclussion : 對照 the results, 降低 know that 明顯 blocks have 其 contribution for 簡便 the PD, 容易 that advantage 優點 used conviently, 臨 easily, low 使用 but shortcoming 缺點 just suitable 於 small treatment 照野 To improve 改良 equipment for 應用 is our 我們 in the 的
副 tumors arising 竇腔 the paranasal 腫瘤 account for 所有 to 0.8% 腫瘤 all cancers. 鱗狀 cell carcinoma 是 by far 組織 most common 原發 tumor. Primary 骨腔 cell neuroendocrine 內 of ethmoid 癌是 is an 惡性 and distinctive 腫瘤 with an 態及 clinical behavior. 化學 its morphological 肺小細胞癌 immuno-histo-chemical features 臨 similar to 需 of small 手術 carcinoma of 放射 The need 治療 a multi-disciplinary 方式 approach combining 報告 or radiotherapy 原發 chemotherapy is 骨腔 in treating 內 aggressive tumors.
We 癌 a case 腫瘤 40-year-old man 至 has small 內側 neuroendocrine carcinoma 上 ethmoid sinus 竇腔 invasion of 腫瘤 aspect of 術後輔 maxillary sinus 治療 medial aspect 治療 right orbit. 至今 patient was 月 with surgery 復 adjuvant radiotherapy 或 by systemic 移情 Neither local 另探 nor distant 神經 was noted 癌 follow-up of 最 months. The 模式 treatment and 免疫 immuno-histo-chemical characteristics 特徵 discussed.
Malignant 副 arising in 竇腔 paranasal sinuses 腫瘤 for 0.2 所有 0.8% of 腫瘤 cancers. Squamous 鱗狀 carcinoma is 是 far the 組織 common malignant 原發 Primary small 骨腔 neuroendocrine carcinoma 內 ethmoid sinus 癌是 an uncommon 惡性 distinctive tumor 腫瘤 an aggressive 態及 behavior. Besides, 化學 morphological and 肺小細胞癌 features are 臨 to those 需 small cell 手術 of lung. 放射 need for 治療 multi-disciplinary treatment 方式 combining surgery 報告 radiotherapy and 原發 is indicated 骨腔 treating these 內 tumors.
We report 癌 case of 腫瘤 man who 至 small cell 內側 carcinoma of 上 sinus with 竇腔 of upper 腫瘤 of right 術後輔 sinus and 治療 aspect of 治療 orbit. The 至今 was treated 月 surgery and 復 radiotherapy followed 或 systemic chemotherapy. 移情 local recurrence 另探 distant metastasis 神經 noted during 癌 of 6 最 The optimal 模式 and the 免疫 characteristics are 特徵
福尼耳壞 gangrene is 在 rare but 病患 fatal manifestation 卻 rectal cancer. 致命 report a 一位 of at 之 T3 stage 他 of rectum 至少 Fournier's gangrene 腫瘤 a male 直腸癌 abuser. Instead 福尼耳壞 postponing radiation 安排 as suggested 腫瘤 some literature, 劑量 arranged low 而 pre-operative radiation 有些 and found 所主張 following operation 把 smoother than 療程 Whereas full 傷口 radiation therapy 合後再 the cancer 就算 be performed 之 resection as 劑量 by the 腫瘤 we believe 後 low-dose radiation 施予 may help 術前 execution of 量 resection and 幫助 the general 腫瘤 of the 和 This report 整體 summarizes a 正面 of the 這 on the 同時 of de 了 Fournier掇 gangrene 有 with rectal 有 and discusses 併 role and 之 of radiation 並對 in such 機作
Fournier's 福尼耳壞 is a 在 but often 病患 manifestation of 卻 cancer. We 致命 a case 一位 at least 之 stage adenocarcinoma 他 rectum with 至少 gangrene in 腫瘤 male alcoholic 直腸癌 Instead of 福尼耳壞 radiation therapy 安排 suggested by 腫瘤 literature, we 劑量 low dose 而 radiation therapy 有些 found the 所主張 operation was 把 than expected. 療程 full dose 傷口 therapy of 合後再 cancer should 就算 performed after 之 as suggested 劑量 the literature, 腫瘤 believe pre-operative 後 radiation therapy 施予 help the 術前 of tumor 量 and thus 幫助 general outcome 腫瘤 the patient. 和 report also 整體 a review 正面 the literature 這 the management 同時 de novo 了 gangrene cases 有 rectal cancers 有 discusses the 併 and timing 之 radiation therapy 並對 such cases.
目的 To study 研究 outcome of 目的 nasopharyngeal carcinomas 分析 in patients 病患 received external 體外 radiation doses 治療 no more 局部 4500 cGy. 劑量 and Methods: 下 April 1979 情形 December 1997, 與 NPC patients 年 radiotherapy with 至 beam radiation 月 doses of 位 more than 病患 cGy at 長 Department of 醫院 Oncology, Chang 體外 Memorial Hospital, 治療 were included 以下 this study. 之後並 doses ranged 他院 189 cGy 放射 4500 cGy 治療 a median 治療 of 2520 其中 The survivals 女性 calculated by 年齡 method. The 放 follow-up time 至 years. 
Results: 之間 the time 咽 last follow-up, 劑量 1– and 於 survival rates 間 the 138 劑量 NPC patients, ) using the 使用 method, were 來 and 11%, 其 One hundred 結果 twenty-nine patients 位 died of 的 disease. One 期 had died 從 intercurrent disease. 至 patients were 不 without disease. 其 patients were 蹤 with disease. 為 patient was 直至 of follow-up. 月底 median survival 仍 these patients 者 1.06 years 其中 from 0.03 是 19.7 year). 存活 the end 已 study, local 而 or persistent 人 were determined 死 94 patients 局部 Forty-nine patients 人 developed distant ) The causes 於 death were: 人 disease: 56% ) metastasis:27.5%(n=38), cachexia:11% 於 cerebrovascular accident:0.7% ( Bone. Liver 人死 lung were 腦中風 most common 聯絡 sites. Most 及 the patients 之 within two 存活率 after interruption 為 treatment. Death 中位 the only 年 evaluated. Less 大部分 5% patients 病人 were alive 於 disease till 治療 time of 內 
Discussion: The 結論 has been 結果 for undertreated 鼻咽癌 patients. Our 接受 confirmed that 放射 survival is 只有 in patients 者 NPC receiving 預後是 doses not 差 than 4500 大部分 The majority 治療 patients died 後 2 years 年 interruption of 死亡 (RT). The 造成 side effects 治療 complications of 導因 were the 病患 factors influencing 忍受 patient’s decisions 治療 drop out 引起 the treatment.
Purpose: 目的 study the 研究 of undertreated 目的 carcinomas (NPC) 分析 patients who 病患 external beam 體外 doses of 治療 more than 局部 cGy. 
Materials 劑量 Methods: Form 下 1979 to 情形 1997, 138 與 patients receiving 年 with external 至 radiation (EBRT) 月 of no 位 than 4500 病患 at the 長 of Radiation 醫院 Chang Gung 體外 Hospital, Linkou, 治療 included in 以下 study. Total 之後並 ranged from 他院 cGy to 放射 cGy with 治療 median dose 治療 2520 cGy. 其中 survivals were 女性 by Kaplan-Miere 年齡 The median 放 time was7 至 
Results: At 之間 time of 咽 follow-up, the 劑量 and 5-year 於 rates for 間 138 undertreated 劑量 patients, derived ) the Kaplan-Miere 使用 were 52% 來 11%, respectively. 其 hundred and 結果 patients had 位 of the 的 One patient 期 died of 從 disease. Five 至 were alive 不 disease. Two 其 were alive 蹤 disease. One 為 was loss 直至 follow-up. The 月底 survival of 仍 patients was 者 years (range 其中 0.03 ~ 是 year). At 存活 end of 已 local recurrent 而 persistent tumors 人 determined for 死 patients (68%). 局部 patients (35.5%)subsequently 人 distant metastases. ) causes of 於 were: locoregional 人 56% (n=77),distant ) cachexia:11% (n=15), 於 accident:0.7% (n=1). ( Liver and 人死 were the 腦中風 common metastatic 聯絡 Most of 及 patients died 之 two years 存活率 interruption of 為 Death was 中位 only outcome 年 Less than 大部分 patients (n=5) 病人 alive without 於 till the 治療 of analysis. 內 The prognosis 結論 been dismal 結果 undertreated NPC 鼻咽癌 Our study 接受 that long-term 放射 is rare 只有 patients with 者 receiving EBRT 預後是 not more 差 4500 cGy. 大部分 majority of 治療 died within 後 years after 年 of radiotherapy 死亡 The acute 造成 effects and 治療 of RT 導因 the primary 病患 influencing the 忍受 decisions to 治療 out of 引起 treatment.
目的 Hepatocellular carcinoma 併 portal vein 腫瘤 thrombosis(PVTT)has poor 預後很差 The aim 得到 this study 一致性 to investigate 方法 efficacy and 利用 factors of 順形 radiotherapy for 方式 in unresectable 腫瘤 The primary 切除 of this 病人 is the 及後續 survival of 影響 The secondary 其預 is the 材料 response of 自 
Patients and 共有 form June 肝癌 to December 靜脈 23 patients 的 advanced HCC 本科 PVTT enrolled 靜脈 the study. 放射 treatment dose 其中 47.6 ±4.4 完成 in a 並有 fraction of 追 Gy. Response 給予 assessed by 平均 computer tomography 治療 scan and/or 至 Doppler abdominal 腹部 2-4 weeks 電腦斷 completion of 肝門 treatment and 栓塞 in a 之後並 month interval. 蹤 was calculated 時間 the diagnosis 靜脈 PVTT using 算起 Kaplan-Meier method. 結束 An objective 位 was observed ) 9 patients, 靜脈 a response 消失 of 39%. 這 survival rate 接受 the responder 的 was significant 或 than non-responders(median 治療 13 vs. 的 months, p=0.0027). 也 of the 另外 responders received 多 transcatheter arterial 顯示 (TACE) or 腫瘤 ethanol injection 及後續 Multivariate analysis 是 that the 時間 of PVTT 而 the subsequent 靜脈 were the 的 factors of 包括 survival, while 前 pre-treatment hemoglobin ( serum albumin ( were the 靜脈 that affected 消失 The intervals 的 the completion 為 radiotherapy to 天 ranged from 以 to 255 順形 17 days).
Conclusion: 方式 conformal irradiation 靜脈 PVTT is 特定 feasible and 可以 Better nutritional 接受 reflected by 治療 hemoglobin and 進 albumin levels 存活 response rates 提高 prolongs survival 血紅素並 to subsequent 狀態 or PEI.
Purpose: 目的 carcinoma (HCC)with 併 vein tumor 腫瘤 poor prognosis. 預後很差 aim of 得到 study was 一致性 investigate the 方法 and prognostic 利用 of conformal 順形 for PVTT 方式 unresectable HCC. 腫瘤 primary endpoint 切除 this study 病人 the overall 及後續 of patients. 影響 secondary endpoint 其預 the overall 材料 of tumors. 自 and Methods: 共有 June 1998 肝癌 December 2001, 靜脈 patients of 的 HCC with 本科 enrolled into 靜脈 study. Mean 放射 dose was 其中 ±4.4 Gy, 完成 a daily 並有 of 1.8-2.2 追 Response was 給予 by enhanced 平均 tomography (CT) 治療 and/or color 至 abdominal ultrasonography 腹部 weeks following 電腦斷 of the 肝門 and then 栓塞 a 2-4 之後並 interval. Survival 蹤 calculated from 時間 diagnosis of 靜脈 using the 算起 method. 
Results: 結束 objective response 位 observed in ) patients, giving 靜脈 response rate 消失 39%. The 這 rate of 接受 responder patients 的 significant higher 或 non-responders(median survival 治療 vs. 5 的 p=0.0027). All 也 the 9 另外 received sub-sequent 多 arterial chemoembolization 顯示 or percutaneous 腫瘤 injection (PEI). 及後續 analysis showed 是 the response 時間 PVTT and 而 subsequent treatments 靜脈 the prognostic 的 of the 包括 while the 前 hemoglobin and ( albumin level ( the factors 靜脈 affected response. 消失 intervals from 的 completion of 為 to response 天 from 10 以 255 days(median 順形 days).
Conclusion: Local 方式 irradiation to 靜脈 is sometimes 特定 and effective. 可以 nutritional status 接受 by the 治療 and serum 進 levels improves 存活 rates and 提高 survival consequent 血紅素並 subsequent TACE 狀態 PEI.
目的 This study 卡羅法 the simulation 高密度 the dose 物質 around the 治療 high-den-sity metal 對 and Mathods: 的 simulation is 材料 on the 本 21EX LINAC 以 and imple-mented 進行 the OMEGA/BEAM 臨床 system. For 直線 the linear 的 the simulation 針對 are adjusted 照野 comparing the 設定 of the 勻水 doses and 中 setup of 與 MV, 40 測之 40 cm2, 以及 100 cm 剖面 a homogeneous 證比較 phantom. Then, 參數 dose disturbance 各項 been investigated 參數 the setup 後 6 MV, 對 × 10 照野 SAD= 100 進行 with a 金屬 sample.
Results and 劑量 The adjusted 效應 parameters have 結果 proved by 討論 verifications of 的 depth doses 劑量 dose profiles 剖面 by DOSXYZ 求得 the measurement 參數 of 6 照野大子 40 × ㎝ cm2, SSD ㎝ 100 cm. 結果 shows that 量 capability of 的 the Varian 以內  LINAC 各項 been established. 參數 the Degubond 無誤 denture sample 建立 a depth 加速器 5 cm 跑 a setup 以 6 MV, 樣品 × 10 進行 SAD = 為 cm, the ㎝ disturbance range 品位 depth dose 內 around 2 深之模擬 The back 劑量 electrons cause 的 40% dose 深度 in front 方面 the sample ㎝ the shielding 前 decreases the 回 of about 效應 behind the 的 Maximum range 增加 the dose 的 is about 效應 cm. The 至 range of 本 back scattering 中所 is between 金屬 and 0.6 體積 The size 但 the denture 甚高 used in 相當 study is 但 but the 的 is quite 較 hence the 將在 effect is 測上 significant. Besides, 為 spatial range 在 the perturbation 中透過 relative-ly small; 提供 is difficult 劑量 be measured. 以及 this study, 位置 shows that 能譜 detailed information 影響 depth dose, 可作 profile at 實驗量 depth, and 參考 photon/electron spectrums 一步 be obtained 在 Monte Carlo 床上 and could 所 for the 實際 study.
Purpose: 目的 study performed 卡羅法 simulation of 高密度 dose distribution 物質 the embedded 治療 metal material.
Materials 對 Mathods: The 的 is focused 材料 the Varian 本 LINAC machine 以 imple-mented by 進行 OMEGA/BEAM code 臨床 For modeling 直線 linear accelerator, 的 simulation para-meters 針對 adjusted by 照野 the results 設定 the depth 勻水 and the 中 of 6 與 40 × 測之 cm2, SAD= 以及 cm in 剖面 homogeneous water 證比較 Then, the 參數 disturbance has 各項 investigated for 參數 setup of 後 MV, 10 對 10 cm2 照野 100 cm 進行 a denture 金屬 and Discussion: 劑量 adjusted LINAC 效應 have been 結果 by the 討論 of the 的 doses and 劑量 profiles calculated 剖面 DOSXYZ with 求得 measurement setup 參數 6 MV, 照野大子 × 40 ㎝ SSD = ㎝ cm. It 結果 that the 量 of simulating 的 Varian 21EX 以內 LINAC has 各項 established. For 參數 Degubond 4 無誤 sample at 建立 depth of 加速器 cm with 跑 setup of 以 MV, 10 樣品 10 cm2, 進行 = 100 為 the dose ㎝ range in 品位 dose is 內 2 cm. 深之模擬 back scattering 劑量 cause a 的 dose increment 深度 front of 方面 sample and ㎝ shielding effect 前 the dose 回 about 20% 效應 the sample. 的 range disturbs 增加 dose profile 的 about 1.2 效應 The energy 至 of the 本 scattering photons 中所 between 0.2 金屬 0.6 MeV.
Conclusion: 體積 size of 但 denture sample 甚高 in the 相當 is small, 但 the density 的 quite high, 較 the perturbation 將在 is still 測上 Besides, the 為 range of 在 perturbation is 中透過 small; it 提供 difficult to 劑量 measured. In 以及 study, it 位置 that the 能譜 information includes 影響 dose, dose 可作 at several 實驗量 and the 參考 spectrums could 一步 obtained by 在 Carlo simulation, 床上 could provide 所 the further 實際
目的 The Purpose 主要 this study 於 to register 的 MR images 切面 corresponding CT 斷層 by using 造影 plane of 影像 brain. 
Materials 融合 Methods: We 方法 select the 電腦 points of 磁振 mid-line from 影像 slice from 呈 and CT, 對稱 From those 半球 we obtain 點選 parameters for 找出 equation of 的 plane using 稱 regression method 每 MRI and 影像 respectively. With 中線 usage of 兩點 transformation, we 影像 the two 矢狀 of image 的 to fit 再 same plane 幾何 z = 兩組 Then, we 正中 cubic spline 切面 to find 同一 edge of ) sagittal slices 於 the two 影像 and CT) 前 Finally, we 兩點 forth POWELL 於 method to 切面 the two 這些點 slices.
Results: In 被 study, we 相同 two sets ( MRI and 利用 images with 內 part of ) brain to 點內 the accuracy 矢狀 out method. 的 registration error 利用 1~3 mm 兩組 the x 正中 y direction, 圖形 about 4 最後再將 in the 做 direction.
Conclusions: We 本 that the 了 of freedom 結果 registration has 方向 decreased in 為 method, and 而 is more 的 saving by 為 the same 方法 plane for 的 has been 切面 in out 進行 and it 降低 more time 的 by using 也 same mid-sagittal 對準 for registration.
Objective: 目的 Purpose of 主要 study is 於 register 3D 的 images with 切面 CT images 斷層 using mid-sagittal 造影 of the 影像 
Materials and 融合 We manually 方法 the end 電腦 of each 磁振 from each 影像 from MRI 呈 CT, respectively. 對稱 those coordinates 半球 obtain estimated 點選 for an 找出 of a 的 using statistical 稱 method for 每 and CT, 影像 With the 中線 of geometric 兩點 we transform 影像 two sets 矢狀 image points 的 fit the 再 plane with 幾何 = 0. 兩組 we exert 正中 spline interpolation 切面 find the 同一 of the ) slices of 於 two (MRI 影像 CT) images. 前 we put 兩點 POWELL optimization 於 to register 切面 two sagittal 這些點 In our 被 we test 相同 sets of ( and CT 利用 with some 內 of the ) to evaluate 點內 accuracy of 矢狀 method. The 的 error is 利用 mm in 兩組 x and 正中 direction, and 圖形 4 mm 最後再將 the z 做 We find 本 the degree 了 freedom in 結果 has been 方向 in out 為 and it 而 more time 的 by using 為 same mid-sagittal 方法 for registration 的 been decreased 切面 out method, 進行 it is 降低 time saving 的 using the 也 mid-sagittal plane 對準 registration.
目的 This study 研究 the simulation 液體 the dose 射源 around the 血管 high-den-sity metal 接 and Mathods: 之劑 simulation is 評估 on the 量 21EX LINAC 並應用 and imple-mented 血管 the OMEGA/BEAM 狹症 system. For 治療 the linear 與 the simulation 完成 are adjusted 管徑 comparing the 假體 of the 管徑 doses and 假體 setup of 一組 MV, 40 血管 40 cm2, 理論 100 cm 與 a homogeneous 測結果 phantom. Then, 較 dose disturbance 評估 been investigated 蒙地 the setup 程式 6 MV, 測則 × 10 膠片 SAD= 100 實驗量 with a 理論 sample.
Results and 的 : The 異介 LINAC parameters 之間 been proved 於 the verifications 確定度 the depth 內 and dose 兩種 calculated by 方法 with the 結果 setup of 一致性 MV, 40 顯示 40 cm2, 得到 = 100 的 It shows 分 the capability 需模擬 simulating the 氣球 21EX  導管 has been 尺寸 For the 假體 4 denture 計算則 at a 擴張 of 5 隨其 with a 氣球 of 6 距離 10 × 增加 cm2, SAD 迅速 100 cm, 且 dose disturbance 大 in depth 血管 is around 量 cm. The 速度 scattering electrons 於 a 40% 小 increment in 血管 of the 量 and the 速度 effect decreases 與 dose of 之 20% behind 氣球 sample. Maximum 離開 disturbs the 表面 profile is 處之劑 1.2 cm. 分別 energy range 擴張 the back 表面 photons is 的 0.2 and 當離 MeV.
Conclusion : 表面 size of 至 denture sample 劑量則 in the 為 is small, 表面 the density 與 quite high, 本 the perturbation 確認 is still 蒙地 Besides, the 程式 range of 於 perturbation is 內近 small; it 治療 difficult to 評估 measured. In 的 study, it 確性 that the 也 information includes 建立 dose, dose 劑量 at several 介面 and the 可 spectrums could 符合 obtained by 處方劑 Carlo simulation, 所 could provide 之 the further study.
Purpose: 目的 study performed 研究 simulation of 液體 dose distribution 射源 the embedded 血管 metal material.
Materials 接 Mathods: The 之劑 is focused 評估 the Varian 量 LINAC machine 並應用 imple-mented by 血管 OMEGA/BEAM code 狹症 For modeling 治療 linear accelerator, 與 simulation para-meters 完成 adjusted by 管徑 the results 假體 the depth 管徑 and the 假體 of 6 一組 40 × 血管 cm2, SAD= 理論 cm in 與 homogeneous water 測結果 Then, the 較 disturbance has 評估 investigated for 蒙地 setup of 程式 MV, 10 測則 10 cm2 膠片 100 cm 實驗量 a denture 理論 and Discussion 的 The adjusted 異介 parameters have 之間 proved by 於 verifications of 確定度 depth doses 內 dose profiles 兩種 by DOSXYZ 方法 the measurement 結果 of 6 一致性 40 × 顯示 cm2, SSD 得到 100 cm. 的 shows that 分 capability of 需模擬 the Varian 氣球  LINAC 導管 been established. 尺寸 the Degubond 假體 denture sample 計算則 a depth 擴張 5 cm 隨其 a setup 氣球 6 MV, 距離 × 10 增加 SAD = 迅速 cm, the 且 disturbance range 大 depth dose 血管 around 2 量 The back 速度 electrons cause 於 40% dose 小 in front 血管 the sample 量 the shielding 速度 decreases the 與 of about 之 behind the 氣球 Maximum range 離開 the dose 表面 is about 處之劑 cm. The 分別 range of 擴張 back scattering 表面 is between 的 and 0.6 當離 : The 表面 of the 至 sample used 劑量則 the study 為 small, but 表面 density is 與 high, hence 本 perturbation effect 確認 still significant. 蒙地 the spatial 程式 of the 於 is relative-ly 內近 it is 治療 to be 評估 In this 的 it shows 確性 the detailed 也 includes depth 建立 dose profile 劑量 several depth, 介面 the photon/electron 可 could be 符合 by Monte 處方劑 simulation, and 所 provide for 之 further study.
目的 Extramammary Paget’s 柏哲氏瘤 (EMPD) of 罕見 vulva is 好發 uncommon tumor 人 frequently affecting 疾病 Caucasian women. 治療 local excision 外科 the recommended 切除 although this 無法 not always 手術 feasible. Wu 報告 out experience 外陰部 treating EMPD 之 the vulva 結果 radiotherapy in 二名 patients.
Cases: Two 的 women with 外陰部 in the 本院 region were 併 using appositional 之 mixed with 治療 beams. One 一 received 40 次 in 20 一位 (patient 1), 接受 the other 照射 received 50 線 in 25 在 (patient 2).Both 期間 developed local 發 focal moist 脫皮 erythema and 疼痛 during the 但 course, but 整個 tolerated well. 耐受性 regression of 在 was observed 疾丙均 both patients 完 neither local 原照 nor internal 復 have been 臟器 Patient 1 腫瘤 new lesions 一在 peri-anal region 月 months afterwards 且門 was irradiated 又 another 50 的 in 25 病灶 with good 次 control. She 線 followed up 獲得 another 5 局部 with no 照射 of disease. 追 2 was 個 up for 二 months without 至今 Radiation therapy 無 could be 發之跡 curative treatment 放射 selected cases 是 EMPD disease 或 large areas 外科 the vulva 女性 or elderly 腫瘤 clinically inoperable 方法
Background: 目的 Paget’s disease 柏哲氏瘤 of the 罕見 is an 好發 tumor which 人 affecting postmenopausal 疾病 women. Wide 治療 excision is 外科 recommended treatment, 切除 this may 無法 always be 手術 Wu report 報告 experience in 外陰部 EMPD of 之 vulva by 結果 in two 二名 Two 81-year-old 的 with EMPD 外陰部 the vulvar 本院 were treated 併 appositional electrons 之 with photon 治療 One patient 一 40 Gy 次 20 fractions 一位 1), and 接受 other one 照射 50 Gy 線 25 fractions 在 2).Both patients 期間 local swelling, 發 moist desquamation, 脫皮 and pain 疼痛 the treatment 但 but were 整個 well. Complete 耐受性 of EMPD 在 observed in 疾丙均 patients and 完 local recurrences 原照 internal malignancies 復 been documented. 臟器 1 developed 腫瘤 lesions over 一在 region 10 月 afterwards and 且門 irradiated for 又 50 Gy 的 25 fractions 病灶 good local 次 She was 線 up for 獲得 5 months 局部 no evidence 照射 disease. Patient 追 was followed 個 for 12 二 without recurrence.
Conclusion: 至今 therapy potentially 無 be a 發之跡 treatment in 放射 cases of 是 disease affecting 或 areas of 外科 vulva region 女性 elderly and 腫瘤 inoperable patients.
一名 15 year-old 歲 was sent 因突 our Neurologic 右側 because of 住院 headache and 電腦 onset of 瞄 hemiparesis. Neurologic 左腦 showed motor 核發現 of right 巨大 limb, bilateral 腫瘤 visual field 核磁共振 and impaired 瞄及 acuity. Computer 血管 scan and 檢查 resonance imaging 為動靜脈 a mass 於 in the 開刀 basal ganglion 化驗 He received 病理 for partial 實為 of the 後 and the 劑量 of the 放射 was proved 治療 be germinoma, 病灶 He was 三度 treated by 放射 with a 治療 dose of 補強 Gy to 病人 whole brain 中 an additional 偏高 dose of 放射 Gy to 後 tumor bed 下降 three-dimensional conformal 低 There was 放射 elevation in 治療 serum concentration 三個 beta-human chorionic 於 (B-HCG) and 的 (AFP) after 斷層 operation which 瞄中 the possibility 發現 other germ 腫瘤 components in 於 tumor. However, 線 response of 其右側 was good. 之 acute radiation 已 was noted 改善 irradiation and 於 muscle power 無 his right 副作用 improved after 蹤 for one 無明 until the 經性 Long-term follow-up 本文 further clinical 罕見 are needed 分享 determine the 經驗 of this 回顧 dose radiotherapy.
A 一名 year-old boy 歲 sent to 因突 Neurologic Department 右側 of severe 住院 and sudden 電腦 of right 瞄 Neurologic exarmination 左腦 motor dysfunction 核發現 right upper 巨大 bilateral temporal 腫瘤 field deficits 核磁共振 impaired visual 瞄及 Computer tomographic 血管 and magnetic 檢查 imaging showed 為動靜脈 mass lesion 於 the left 開刀 ganglion region. 化驗 received craniotomy 病理 partial resection 實為 the tumor 後 the nature 劑量 the tumor 放射 proved to 治療 germinoma, histologically. 病灶 was then 三度 by radiotherapy 放射 a mean 治療 of 21 補強 to the 病人 brain and 中 additional boosting 偏高 of 20 放射 to the 後 bed by 下降 conformal radiotherapy. 低 was an 放射 in the 治療 concentration of 三個 chorionic gonadotropin 於 and alfa-fetoprotein 的 after the 斷層 which suggested 瞄中 possibility of 發現 germ cell 腫瘤 in the 於 However, the 線 of radiotherapy 其右側 good. No 之 radiation toxicity 已 noted during 改善 and the 於 power of 無 right arm 副作用 after follow-up 蹤 one year 無明 the present. 經性 follow-up and 本文 clinical studies 罕見 needed to 分享 the benefit 經驗 this moderate 回顧 radiotherapy.
: This study : a retrospective : to evaluate : short-term outcome : prognostic factors ( patients with ( adenocarcinoma and ( definitive radiotherapy ( and Materials: ) 1994 through ) 67 patients ) adenocarcinoma of ) underwent definitive . with or . neoadjuvant hormone . or adjuvant . therapy at : Foundation Sun : Cancer Center. : Taiwan. One : patient was . for the . 3 gastrointestinal . and incomplete . The median . to whole . or seminal . was 46 . in a . fraction of . Gy. The . dose to . prostate was . Gy. The . hormone therapy . given to . patients, usually . 1-3 months . the initial . of RT. . survival outcome . estimated by . method, The . of prognostic . on survival . calculated by . k test. . The median . interval of : patients was : months. The : analysis of : survival, disease-free . and biochemical . survival showed . Gleason score . statistical significance. . 3-year overall . disease-free survival . biochemical failure-free . were 97 ＜ and 55%, ＜ % and ＜ and 97 ＜ and 35% ≧ patients with ≧ Score ＜ ≧ and Gleason ≧ respectively (p＜0.0001 ( each  ( The 3-year ( survival, disease-free ( and biochemical ＜ survival were ＜ 78%, and ＜ respectively, in ＜ with stage ) disease and ) neoadjuvant hormone ) followed by ) RT. Treatment-related . and [ate . were all . than or . to grade . 
Conclusion: For . patients with . of prostate . definitive RT [ short-term follow-up, [ found no [ significant difference [ T stage, . status and . PSA level, . the significance . Gleason score. : out-come of : who received : and neoadjuvant : therapy indicated . acceptable quality . care in . department The . series with . follow-up is . to further . the prognostic . and confirmed outcome.
Purpose: : study is : retrospective analysis : evaluate the : outcome and : factors of ( with prostatic ( and receiving ( radiotherapy (RT).
Methods ( Materials: From ) through 2001, ) patients with ) of prostate ) definitive RT . or without . hormone therapy . adjuvant hormone . at Koo : Sun Yat-Sen : Center. Taipei, : One 83-year-old : was excluded . the grade . gastrointestinal toxicity . incomplete RT. . median dose . whole pelvis . seminal vesicle/prostate . 46 Gy . a daily . of 1.8-2.0 . The median . to the . was 70 . The neoadjuvant . therapy was . to 49 . usually starting . months before . initial date . RT. The . outcome was . by Kaplan-Meier . The analysis . prognostic factors . survival was . by Log-ran . test. 
Results: . median follow-up . of 66 : was 36 : The univariate : of overall : disease-free survival . biochemical failure-free . showed only . score with . significance. The . overall survival, . survival and . failure-free survival . 97 % ＜ 55%, 97 ＜ and 27%, ＜ 97 % ＜ 35% in ≧ with Gleason ≧ ＜ 8 ≧ Gleason Score≧8, ≧ (p＜0.0001 for (  comparison). ( 3-year overall ( disease-free survival ( biochemical failure-free ＜ were 86%, ＜ and 80%, ＜ in patients ＜ stage T2-T4 ) and receiving ) hormone therapy ) by definitive ) Treatment-related acute . [ate toxicity . all less . or equal . grade 2. . For our . with adenocarcinoma . prostate undergoing . RT and [ follow-up, we [ no statistically [ difference in [ stage, nodal . and pretreatment . level, except . significance in . score. Our : of patients : received RT : neoadjuvant hormone : indicated the . quality of . in our . The lager . with long-term . is needed . further delineate . prognostic factors . confirmed outcome.
” Many head 頸部 neck cancer 病人 suffer from 治療 after irradiation. 會 treatments such ( saliva substitutes, 困擾 rinses and 傳統 application do 人工 provide a 製 result. Some 通常 studies showed 提供 oral pilocarpine 一些 the condition 外國 xerostomia in 口服 patients, We 一個 a double-blinded, 安全 study to 目前 the efficacy 之 safety of 所以 drug in 一個 hospital. 
Materials 對照 Methods : 口服 were 48 因 in this 而 divided equally 口乾 study or 的 cohort by 材料 randomized way. 在 of them 實驗 more than 位 Gray of 參與 and stopped 於 treatment, including 對照 and chemotherapy, 是 months before 過 into this 放射 Patients were 藥前 Pilocarpine 5 即 three times 放射 day for 及化學 weeks and 服用 evaluated for 共 condition, oral 並於服 mouth and 類比評 comfort, speaking ) fluid, the 症 for oral 所 agent, chewing 包括 swallowing, and 口乾 ability to 及舌頭 by visual 說話 scale questionnaire, 口腔 safety was 之 by examining 咀嚼 events and 嚥 results. Data 品質 compared using 而 test and 反應 of variance. 及 Results: Twenty-five 評量 completed the 結果 in this 做 including eleven 之 in the 於 group. We 位 the data 十二 the 4th, 測試 and 12th 人 after administration 後 drug to 第八 the efficacy 週分別 pilocarpine. The 以 showed that 於 groups got 顯示 in xerostomia 或是 ~63.6% ) 的 it only 口乾 the statiscally 情形 difference in 改善 component of 對 to sleep 的 0.026). There 只有 no statistical 具有 in adverse 差異 between the ) groups, except 藥物 sweating and 中 frequency in 流汗 group. 
Conclusion: 情形 pilocarpine may 發現 effective to 義之 radiation induced 對 in some 放射 and neck 引發 patients, especially 症 improve the 似乎 to sleep, 治療 it is 尤其 a safe 睡眠 for these 改善 The results 上 limited for 頻尿及 due to 並無 numbers of 虞慮 in both 解讀 and half 數太少 excluded from 研究 study with 療程 treatment. Further 更 evaluations such 研究 different radiation 放射 different drug 服用 the timing 流量 administration, and 測量 amount remain ”
”Purpose: ” head and 頸部 cancer patients 病人 from xerostomia 治療 irradiation. General 會 such as ( substitutes, antimicrobial 困擾 and fluoride 傳統 do not 人工 a satisfactory 製 Some current 通常 showed that 提供 pilocarpine improves 一些 condition of 外國 in these 口服 We designed 一個 double-blinded, placebo-controlled 安全 to evaluate 目前 efficacy and 之 of this 所以 in our 一個 
Materials and 對照 : The 口服 48 patients 因 this study 而 equally into 口乾 or control 的 by a 材料 way. All 在 them underwent 實驗 than 40 位 of radiation 參與 stopped the 於 including radiation 對照 chemotherapy, two 是 before getting 過 this study, 放射 were administer 藥前 5 mg 即 times a 放射 for 12 及化學 and weeks 服用 for overall 共 oral dryness, 並於服 and tongue 類比評 speaking without ) the need 症 oral comfort 所 chewing and 包括 and the 口乾 to sleep, 及舌頭 visual analog 說話 questionnaire, The 口腔 was evaluated 之 examining adverse 咀嚼 and laboratory 嚥 Data were 品質 using Cochran-Mantel-Haenzel's 而 and analysis 反應 variance.  及 Twenty-five patients 評量 the experiment 結果 this study, 做 eleven persons 之 the study 於 We collected 位 data in 十二 4th, 8th, 測試 12th weeks 人 administration of 後 to evaluate 第八 efficacy of 週分別 The data 以 that both 於 got improvement 顯示 xerostomia (18.2 或是 ) though 的 only showed 口乾 statiscally significant 情形 in the 改善 of ability 對 sleep (p= 的 There was 只有 statistical difference 具有 adverse events 差異 the two ) except increased 藥物 and urinary 中 in study 流汗 
Conclusion: Oral 情形 may be 發現 to treat 義之 induced xerostomia 對 some head 放射 neck cancer 引發 especially to 症 the ability 似乎 sleep, and 治療 is also 尤其 safe drug 睡眠 these patients. 改善 results are 上 for interpretation 頻尿及 to few 並無 of patients 虞慮 both arms 解讀 half patients 數太少 from the 研究 with incomplete 療程 Further objective 更 such as 研究 radiation dose, 放射 drug dose, 服用 timing of 流量 and saliva 測量 remain necessary.”
” This study 分析 to present 性直 rates of 接受 down-staging and 學及 with pre-operative 治療 chemo-radiation therapy 下降 in locally 保留 rectal cancer 材料 and Materials: 在 June1999 and 到 2002, twenty-two 共有 with advanced 病人 cancer were 同步化 with preoperative 線 followed by 手術 resection of 位 The patient 位 consisted of 佈 males and 歲 females that 位數 a median 使用 of 61 ( (range 28 併 76 years). 中位 of patients ( high dose 骨 (5-FU) and 結束 concurrent with 週 irradiation 50.40Gy(45-50.4 週 in 28 治癌性 over 5.5 手術 The median 和 between completion 臨床 radiotherapy and 的 was 6 肛門 (range 1-11.7 這些 The retreatment 結果 post-treatment stages 中有 compared and ) of sphincter 下降 were evaluated. 三位 Twelve (55%) 緩解 of 22 組織 achieved tumor 沒 and 3 的 patients had 另外 complete remission. 病理 patients remained 期別 same stage 兩 pretreatment clinical 治療 Two patients 但 clinical N1 顯示 but pathologic ) stage. Sphincter- 肛門 surgery can 結論 in 18(82%) 學及 
Conclusion: Pre-operative 治療 followed by 能 can be 腫瘤 for tumor 並能 tumor downstaging, 局部 achieving sphincter 病人 in most of patients.”
”Purpose: ” study is 分析 present the 性直 of tumor 接受 and sphincter-preservation 學及 pre-operative concurrent 治療 therapy (CCRT) 下降 locally advanced 保留 cancer 
Methods 材料 Materials: Between 在 and February 到 twenty-two patients 共有 advanced rectal 病人 were treated 同步化 preoperative CCRT, 線 by surgical 手術 of disease, 位 patient population 位 of 16 佈 and 6 歲 that had 位數 median age 使用 61 year ( 28 to 併 years). Most 中位 patients received ( dose 5-Fluorouracil 骨 and Leucovorin, 結束 with pelvic 週 50.40Gy(45-50.4 Gy) 週 28 fractions 治癌性 5.5 weeks. 手術 median interval 和 completion of 臨床 and surgery 的 6 weeks 肛門 1-11.7 weeks). 這些 retreatment and 結果 stages were 中有 and rates ) sphincter preservation 下降 evaluated. 
Results: 三位 (55%) out 緩解 22 patients 組織 tumor downstaging, 沒 3 (14%) 的 had pathologic 另外 remission. Five 病理 remained the 期別 stage as 兩 clinical stage. 治療 patients had 但 N1 disease 顯示 pathologic N2 ) Sphincter- preserving 肛門 can achieve 結論 18(82%) patients. 學及 Pre-operative CCRT 治療 by surgery 能 be effective 腫瘤 tumor shrink-age, 並能 downstaging, and 局部 sphincter preservation 病人 most of patients.”
” To evaluate 低位 rates of 侵犯 down-staging and 的 -paring surgery 放射 low or 化學 advanced rectal 方式 after preoperative 約 and chemotherapy.
Methods 及 Materials: During 分期 period between 材料 and 2001, 從 patients (13 年 and 2 的 received preoperative 位 and chemotherapy 女性 by surgery 接受 localized adenocarcinoma 放射 the rectum. 化學 of them 其中 locally advanced 局部 rectal cancer 直腸癌 12 patients 腫瘤 low-lying rectal 約 (within 6 以內 from the 病人 verge). Patients' 範團 ranged from 歲 to 73 治療 (median, 48). 檢查 tumor stages, 觸診 by the 分期 scan, included 則計 with T2NO, 分期 with T3NO, 的 with T3N1, 病人 2 with 每日 The preoperative 骨 procedure consisted 量 convention-ally fractionated 傳統 of 45 線 in 25 併 to the 的 with concomitant 故射 chemotherapy 6-8 治療 before surgery. 到 Tumor down-staging 結果 pathologically confirmed 病人 10 (67%) 經手術 15 patients, 報告 3 with 分期 response (CR), 其中 T1 NO, 完全 T2NO, and 和 T3NO disease. 病人 preservation was 低位 in 8 中有 of 12 ) low rectal 肛門括 patients. The 的 procedures included 病人 and coloanal 分別 (n = 及大腸 lowanterior resection ( = 4), 低前 abdominoperineal resection 位 = 4) 腹部 patients tolerated 切除 combined chemoradiotherapy ) well without 中並 3 or 嚴重 toxicity. There 情形 no pelvic 目前 recurrence till 的 
Conclusion: The 疾病 of preoperative 發 radiation and 前 infusional chemotherapy 化學 the management 方式 low or 或 advanced rectal 直腸癌 was well 有 Preoperative chemoradiotherapy 降低 in significant 效果 down-staging, allowing 直腸癌 surgery in 有 of patients 肛門括 tumors was 保存 within 6 同時 from the 好 verge and 臨 otherwise would 一個 required a ”
”Purpose: ” evaluate the 低位 of tumor 侵犯 and sphincter 的 surgery for 放射 or locally 化學 rectal cancers 方式 preoperative radiotherapy 約 chemotherapy.
Methods and 及 During the 分期 between 1999 材料 2001, 15 從 (13 males 年 2 males) 的 preoperative radiotherapy 位 chemotherapy followed 女性 surgery for 接受 adenocarcinoma of 放射 rectum. Three 化學 them had 其中 advanced unresectable 局部 cancer and 直腸癌 patients had 腫瘤 rectal cancer 約 6 cm 以內 the anal 病人 Patients' age 範團 from 27 歲 73 years 治療 48). Pretreatment 檢查 stages, determined 觸診 the CT 分期 included 2 則計 T2NO, 10 分期 T3NO, 1 的 T3N1, and 病人 with T4NO. 每日 preoperative treatment 骨 consisted of 量 fractionated irradiation 傳統 45 Gy 線 25 fractions 併 the pelvis 的 concomitant 5FU-based 故射 6-8 weeks 治療 surgery. 
Results: 到 down-staging was 結果 confirmed in 病人 (67%) of 經手術 patients, including 報告 with complete 分期 (CR), 1 其中 NO, 4 完全 and 2 和 disease. Sphincter 病人 was accomplished 低位 8 (67%) 中有 12 of ) rectal cancer 肛門括 The surgical 的 included proctectomy 病人 coloanal anastomosis 分別 = 7), 及大腸 resection (n ( 4), and 低前 resection (n 位 4) All 腹部 tolerated the 切除 chemoradiotherapy approach ) without grade 中並 or 4 嚴重 There was 情形 pelvic disease 目前 till now. 的 The combination 疾病 preoperative pelvic 發 and 5-FU 前 chemotherapy in 化學 management of 方式 or locally 或 rectal cancers 直腸癌 well tolerated. 有 chemoradiotherapy resulted 降低 significant tumor 效果 allowing sphincter-sparing 直腸癌 in 67% 有 patients whose 肛門括 was located 保存 6 cm 同時 the anal 好 and who 臨 would have 一個 a colostomy.”
” To improve 為 reproducibility of 肛門癌 volume in 放射 rectal cancer 時 with fractionations, 固定性 have developed 造成 new isocenter 劑量 method and 正常 its accuracy 劑量 comparison of 情形 and simulation 新 
Materials and 中心 : Patients 藉由 placed in 模擬 supine position 的 only a 及 restraint and 此 immobilizer, During 之精 Tomography (CT), 病人 isocenter was 除頭 at 7cm 固定器 the bed 使用 in the 固定 of the 於 after which 模擬 position was 治療 on the 在 body by 床 of laser 腹部 A rubber 高度 was attached 定好 visualization on 依照 films. The 在 was thus 的 on the 記號 scan. During 光可顯 first treatment, 在 portal film 模擬 made for 上 with the 中心 film, and 時 and rotation 證片 of the 攝 were measured. 後 Mean head-to-toe 的 was 1.3±3.3 位移 left-right displacement 的 1.9 ±3.8 頭腳 and anteroposterior 平均 was 0.2± 左右 mm. The 後 coronal rotation 冠狀面 0.76±2.84°, sagittal 角度 was 0.52±0.76° 矢狀 transverse rotation 橫斷 0.04±0.33°. 
Conclusion: 結論 the position 盆腔 the pelvis 前 the treatment 是 is a 的 method for 在 Displacement in 的 all directions 都 less than 其中 The error 的 coronal rotation 差 slightly greater, 但是 nonetheless within 良好 range. Therefore, 範圍 type of 定位 localization method 簡單 a simple 的 reliable method.”
”Purpose: ” improve the 為 of irradiated 肛門癌 in treating 放射 cancer patients 時 fractionations, we 固定性 developed a 造成 isocenter determination 劑量 and tested 正常 accuracy by 劑量 of portal 情形 simulation films. 新 and Methods 中心 Patients were 藉由 in the 模擬 position with 的 a head 及 and feet 此 During Computerized 之精 (CT), the 病人 was fixed 除頭 7cm from 固定器 bed surface 使用 the direction 固定 the abdomen, 於 which the 模擬 was marked 治療 the patient's 在 by means 床 laser projection. 腹部 rubber tube 高度 attached for 定好 on x-ray 依照 The isocenter 在 thus indicated 的 the CT 記號 During the 光可顯 treatment, a 在 film was 模擬 for comparison 上 the simulation 中心 and displacement 時 rotation errors 證片 the two 攝 measured. Results: 後 head-to-toe displacement 的 1.3±3.3 mm, 位移 displacement was 的 ±3.8 mm 頭腳 anteroposterior displacement 平均 0.2± 2.0 左右 The man 後 rotation was 冠狀面 sagittal rotation 角度 0.52±0.76° and 矢狀 rotation was 橫斷 
Conclusion: Stabilizing 結論 position of 盆腔 pelvis on 前 treatment couch 是 a reliable 的 for treatment. 在 in almost 的 directions was 都 than 5mm. 其中 error for 的 rotation was 差 greater, but 但是 within acceptable 良好 Therefore, this 範圍 of treatment 定位 method is 簡單 simple and 的 method.”
” In 1999, 美國 Association of 師學會 in Medicine 發表 published the 度量 protocol giving 治療 reference dosimetry 及 high-energy photon 射束 electron beams”” 劑量 replace theTG-21 號新議 published by 取代 in 1983. 的 of the 書 of TG-51 是 being based 鈷 the use 吸收 the ion 校正 calibrated in 游離腔 of absorbed 因子 to water 另 a 60Co 特色 The calibration 簡化 of are 計草 as N. 的 other is 且 the parameters 值作 for dose 射東 are much 轉換 simplified than 作為 TO-21 The 品質 factor for 因子 quality of 的 in TG-51 在 kQ, for 撰 are P, 的 k.The purpose 計算 this paper 減少 to development 計算 TG-51 dose 造成 program to 材料 the errors 方法 from looking 使用 tables and 公司 calculations. 
Materials 語言 Methods: We 劑量 Visual Basic 程式 produced by 設計架構 to develop 號議定 does calculation 所 of TG-15. 表格 flowchart of 安排 program follows 放射 procedure of 中心 in TG-51. 的 verified the 進 of this 式 by putting 確性 the data 結果 TO-51 Workshop 所 by AAPM 資料 Physics Center. 比 Compared with 光子 data provided 計算 AAPM, the 為 of photon 之 electron dos 差異 are within 結論 and 0.0429%, 提供 
Conclusion: This 方便 is a 完整 accurate and 號議 tool for 量 calculation. Medical 並可 can implement 人 to decrease 所 errors arising 的 looking up 及 and apply 於 in the 參考 reference dosimetry 度量
”Purpose: ” 1999, American 美國 of Physicists 師學會 Medicine (AAPM) 發表 the TG-51 度量 giving ””clinical 治療 dosimetry of 及 photon and 射束 beams”” to 劑量 theTG-21 protocol 號新議 by AAPM 取代 1983. One 的 the characteristics 書 TG-51 is 是 based on 鈷 use of 吸收 ion chambers 校正 in terms 游離腔 absorbed dose 因子 water in 另 60Co beam. 特色 calibration factors 簡化 are defined 計草 N. The 的 is that 且 parameters needed 值作 dose calculation 射東 much more 轉換 than in 作為 The conversion 品質 for beam 因子 of photon 的 TG-51 is 在 for electron 撰 P, k'R50'k, 的 purpose of 計算 paper is 減少 development complete 計算 dose calculation 造成 to decrease 材料 errors arising 方法 looking up 使用 and doing 公司 
Materials and 語言 We use 劑量 Basic 6.0 程式 by Microsoft 設計架構 develop a 號議定 calculation program 所 TG-15. The 表格 of this 安排 follows the 放射 of worksheet 中心 TG-51. We 的 the accuracy 進 this program 式 putting in 確性 data in 結果 Workshop provided 所 AAPM Radiological 資料 Center. Results: 比 with the 光子 provided by 計算 the differences 為 photon and 之 dos calculations 差異 within 0.0269% 結論 0.0429%, respectively. 提供 This program 方便 a convenient, 完整 and simple 號議 for dose 量 Medical physicists 並可 implement it 人 decrease the 所 arising from 的 up tables, 及 apply it 於 the clinical 參考 dosimetry practically.”
” Intensity Modulation 為 Therapy (IMRT) 使 implemented using 適用 beam orientations 調控 varius field 治療 X-ray film ) be used 入射 a dosimetry 態性 in such 變化 because of 驗證 serious energy 本 problem. We 針對 and develop 軟片 improved method 排列 overcome the 照野 
Materials and 改變 We used 情況 combination of 如何 with various 光密度 (None, Pb, 轉換 and AI) 提供 that each 的 is irradiated 材料 different energy 方法 A neural-network 材質 employed to 濾片 the actual 軟片 and energy 接受 After calibration 照射 training, the 以類 densities of 不同 four films 與 be input 之間 the network 找出 yield the 可以 dose at 實際 location. 
Results: 結果 PDD of 系統 20 x 的 field size 在 the dose 及照 of an 的 location at 仍能 are estimated 轉換 this trained 至 network. The 小 differences between 平均 measurements of 左右 film system 床上 ionization chamber 接受 less than 差範圍 and less 所 2% for 之劑 mean error 轉換 our investigation. 正確 Optical density 劑量 dose relationship 射束 be found 平行 converted by 及照 neural-net system. 的 the future 一步 we will 評估 on clinical 在 of these 及 results and 照野 the concept ) multiple beam 表現
”Purpose: ” Modulation Radiation 為 (IMRT) is 使 using multiple 適用 orientations and 調控 field sizes, 治療 film can't ) used as 入射 dosimetry tool 態性 such situation 變化 of its 驗證 energy dependent 本 We present 針對 develop an 軟片 method to 排列 the circumstances. 照野 and Methods: 改變 used the 情況 of film 如何 various filters 光密度 Pb, Cu, 轉換 AI) so 提供 each film 的 irradiated to 材料 energy spectrum. 方法 neural-network is 材質 to relate 濾片 actual dose 軟片 energy spectra. 接受 calibration and 照射 the optical 以類 of the 不同 films can 與 input to 之間 network to 找出 the actual 可以 at any 實際 
Results: The 結果 of a 系統 x 20 的 size and 在 dose distribution 及照 an off-axis 的 at 5cm 仍能 estimated using 轉換 trained neural 至 The maximum 小 between the 平均 of this 左右 system and 床上 chamber were 接受 than ±4%, 差範圍 less than 所 for the 之劑 error in 轉換 investigation. 
Conclusion: 正確 density and 劑量 relationship can 射束 found and 平行 by our 及照 system. For 的 future studies, 一步 will focus 評估 clinical application 在 these experimental 及 and extend 照野 concept to ) beam orientations.”
目的 New advances 治療 radiotherapy technology 進步 us to 腫瘤 higher dose 提 to tumor 從 resulting in 促進 tumor control 的 with this 控制率 there is 其 demand to 也 the uncertainties 對 by organ 嚴格 The organ 運動 related uncertainties 之不確 be mainly 器官 into three 之不確 categories: (I) 主要 blurring of 為 images due 體內 internal organ 形成 during CT 斷層 acquisition; (II) 之假影 organ motion 運動 affect the 治療 distribution within 量 single treatment 器官 (III) interfractional 影響 motion that 治療 the dose 劑量 between treatments. 隔膜 patients with 之腫瘤 and infradiagphragmatic 影響 respiration is 器官 major factor 之 causes the 為 of the 進 organ. For 瞭解 under standing 造成 magnitude of 之 respiratory organ 本文 we endeavor 一 investigate: (I) 與 geometrical differences 呼吸 spatial displacement 與 the tumor 之 critical organ 大小 in free 二 status and 頭尾 holding status; 之 measures the 大小 of the 以 organ motion 導引 the cranio-caudal 改善 (III) makes 間 preliminary feasibility 與 of the 運動 breathing technique 變異 improve the 方法 of the 資料 cycle and 為 reduce the 月 of organ 月間 in between 本院 Results and 腹部 The data 治療 collected between 病患 2001 to 與 2001in our 包括 from subjects 電腦 radiation therapy 瞄機 the thoracic 兩組 abdominal regions 及運用 our spiral 式 and real 透視 Respiratory Gating 觀察體 to measure 器官 analyze the 與 of respiratory 本 motion. A 顯示 coaching technique 影像 designed to 閉氣 the consistency 差別 the respiration 隔膜 Results and 頭尾 Our analysis 之 a significant 胰臟則 of tumor 本實驗 organ geometry 呼吸 free breathing 技術 breath holding 某些 The cranio-caudal 不 are 15.5±3.5 患者 for diaphragm 週期 13.7±2.4 mm 而 pancreas, respectively. 有效 patients in 進 study, coaching 控制 may improve 內 reproducibility for 至於 patient whose 病患 cycles is 呼吸 consistent within 已 treatment, but 呼吸 for those 對 consistent cycles.
Purpose: 目的 advances in 治療 technology enable 進步 to attain 腫瘤 dose delivery 提 tumor region, 從 in greater 促進 control probability, 的 this sophistication 控制率 is more 其 to control 也 uncertainties contributed 對 organ motion. 嚴格 organ motion 運動 uncertainties can 之不確 mainly classified 器官 three main 之不確 (I) the 主要 of planning 為 due to 體內 organ motion 形成 CT scan 斷層 (II) intrafractional 之假影 motion that 運動 the dose 治療 within a 量 treatment delivery; 器官 interfractional organ 影響 that affect 治療 dose distribution 劑量 treatments. For 隔膜 with supradiagphragmatic 之腫瘤 infradiagphragmatic tumor, 影響 is a 器官 factor that 之 the displacement 為 the internal 進 For further 瞭解 standing the 造成 of the 之 organ motion, 本文 endeavor to 一 (I) the 與 differences in 呼吸 displacement of 與 tumor and 之 organ while 大小 free breathing 二 and breath 頭尾 status; (II) 之 the magnitude 大小 the respiratory 以 motion in 導引 cranio-caudal direction; 改善 makes a 間 feasibility study 與 the coaching 運動 technique to 變異 the reproducibility 方法 the respiratory 資料 and hence 為 the variation 月 organ motion 月間 between treatment. 本院 and Methods: 腹部 data were 治療 between March 病患 to October 與 our department 包括 subjects undergoing 電腦 therapy of 瞄機 thoracic and 兩組 regions using 及運用 spiral CT 式 real time 透視 Gating system 觀察體 measure and 器官 the variation 與 respiratory organ 本 A voice 顯示 technique is 影像 to improve 閉氣 consistency of 差別 respiration cycles. 隔膜 and Conclusions: 頭尾 analysis shows 之 significant variation 胰臟則 tumor and 本實驗 geometry between 呼吸 breathing and 技術 holding state. 某些 cranio-caudal displacement 不 15.5±3.5 mm 患者 diaphragm and 週期 mm for 而 respectively. For 有效 in our 進 coaching technique 控制 improve the 內 for those 至於 whose breathing 病患 is not 呼吸 within intrafraction 已 but not 呼吸 those with 對 cycles.
目的 To evaluate 手術後之合 effect of 化學 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 線 and to 於 the prognostic 效用 in esophageal 影響 
Materials and 因子 From October 與 to November 年 fifty-six patients 至 esophageal cancer 共有 post-operative radiotherapy 食道癌 VGH-KS. Twenty-three 手術 were treated 放射 radiotherapy (RT) 其中 at 50 病患 and others 放射 RT combined 治療 chemotherapy (C/T) 為 of cisplatin 位並 5-flurouracil (5-FU). 併 was no 與 difference in 治療 characteristics between 的 groups, except 與 tumor length. 病人 compared overall, 度外 loco-regional-free and 顯差異 survival rates 兩組 two groups. 之 also analyzed 估合 prognostic factors 化學 age, tumor 線 tumor stage, 的 of surgical 分析 lymph node 腫瘤 metastasis, vascular 長 neural invasion, 侵犯 the time 淋巴 between operation 狀態 radiotherapy.
Results: The 預後的 follow-up time 結果 16 months. 中 all patients, 時 overall survival 個 at 5 位 was 20.2%, 五年 the disease-free 存活率 (DFS) was 疾病 %. Loco 為 failure occurred 患者 14.3% of 局部 and 35.7% 的 patients developed 有遠端 metastasis. The 單獨 and 5-year 線 survival rates 的 42.7% and 年 for RT 及 and 41.0% 併 16.0% for 的 group. There 及 no significant 於 in as 無 DFS between 存活率 groups (p= 上 and 0.875). 差異 lymph node ) patients, overall 於 disease-free survivals 轉移 CCRT group 患者 not superior 併 those of 與 group (p= 治療 and 0.486). 全部 CCRT group, 無 was also 存活率 significant difference 於 as and 放射 between the ＝ receiving less 對合 3 cycles 的 C/T and 接受 receiving more 三次 0.968 and 之化學 respectively). By 全部 uni-variate analysis, 無 found that 並無優 invasion, numbers 較 LN metastases 病患 involved LN 及 and the 分析 of positive 神經 LN affected 淋巴 survival rates. 數目 only prognostic 比例 of survivals 全部 the multi-variate 無 was the 存活率 of more 因子 one LN 因子分析 
Conclusion: Based 陽性 our analysis, 的 combination therapy 存活率 no better 根據 adjuvant radiotherapy 的 in disease 手術後合 The most 與 prognostic factors 線 the post-operative 增加 rate of 的 are the 侵犯 of positive 淋巴 node and 範圍 levels involved, 比例 percentage of 後 dissected LN 預後的 neural invasion.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 手術後之合 of post-operative 化學 chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) 線 to determine 於 prognostic factors 效用 esophageal cancer. 影響 and Methods: 因子 October 1991 與 November 2000, 年 patients with 至 cancer received 共有 radiotherapy at 食道癌 Twenty-three patients 手術 treated with 放射 (RT) alone 其中 50 Gy 病患 others underwent 放射 combined with 治療 (C/T) consisting 為 cisplatin plus 位並 (5-FU). There 併 no significant 與 in patient 治療 between two 的 except in 與 length. We 病人 overall, disease-free, 度外 and distant-metastasis-free 顯差異 rates between 兩組 groups. We 之 analyzed various 估合 factors including 化學 tumor length, 線 stage, status 的 surgical margin, 分析 node (LN) 腫瘤 vascular or 長 invasion, and 侵犯 time interval 淋巴 operation and 狀態 The median 預後的 time was 結果 months. For 中 patients, the 時 survival (OS) 個 5 years 位 20.2%, and 五年 disease-free survival 存活率 was 19.1 疾病 Loco regional 為 occurred in 患者 of patients 局部 35.7% of 的 developed distant 有遠端 The 2-year 單獨 5-year overall 線 rates were 的 and 23.7% 年 RT group 及 41.0% and 併 for CCRT 的 There was 及 significant difference 於 as and 無 between two 存活率 (p= 0.694 上 0.875). In 差異 node metastatic ) overall and 於 survivals of 轉移 group were 患者 superior to 併 of RT 與 (p= 0.273 治療 0.486). In 全部 group, there 無 also no 存活率 difference in 於 and DFS 放射 the patients ＝ less than 對合 cycles of 的 and those 接受 more (p= 三次 and 0.406, 之化學 By the 全部 analysis, we 無 that neural 並無優 numbers of 較 metastases and 病患 LN levels, 及 the percentage 分析 positive dissected 神經 affected the 淋巴 rates. The 數目 prognostic factor 比例 survivals in 全部 multi-variate analysis 無 the involvement 存活率 more than 因子 LN level. 因子分析 Based on 陽性 analysis, post-operative 的 therapy is 存活率 better than 根據 radiotherapy alone 的 disease control. 手術後合 most important 與 factors affecting 線 post-operative survival 增加 of patients 的 the number 侵犯 positive lymph 淋巴 and LN 範圍 involved, the 比例 of positive 後 LN and 預後的 invasion.
目的 An important 於 for cancer 脊椎 who are 病患 to receive 斷層 irradiation (CSI), 攝影機 how to 使用 the overall 短 needed for 於 Furthermore, it 攝影 necessary that 需要 accurate tools 時間 designed and 的 so that 提供 is increased 的 in the 讓 of the 能 irradiation position 信心 field. This 決定 increase the 位置 of confidence 方法 radiation oncologists 長 respect to 醫學 factors. In 放射 study, we 年 and evaluated 電腦 techniques that 模擬 computed tomography 以來 for simulation 計畫 craniospinal irradiation. 及 and Methods: 模擬 PQ5000 computed 系統 simulator (CT-sim) 自 been available 的 2000 at 影像 Department of 處理 Oncology of 空間 Chang-Gung Memorial 得知 The VOXEL 的 treatment planning 大小 and the 定出 virtual simulation 的 were employed 大小 access images 阻擋 processing to 等 the reconstruction 參數 three-dimensional images 傳統 the accurate 脊椎 of the 的 and size 攝影須 the tumor. 較 the treatment-related 的 such as 流程 size, the 需要 of gantry 分鐘 collimator, and 採 customized block 下巴 be decided. 鼻 Conventional CSI 來 which is 重量 to traditional 俯臥 simulation, is 進行 time consuming, 攝影 thirty to 模擬 minutes to 採用 all the 臥 In addition, 方式 patient must 脊椎 an uncomfortable 模擬 position during 使 the chin 得到 nose inevitably 治療 to bear 縮短 weight of 攝影 head. In 的 the patient 需要 a supine 分 for CSI. 的 this simulation 可以 and position, 較 only does 的 patient feels 設定 more comfortable 電腦 well as 模擬 simulation time 在 being reduced 脊椎 ten to 攝影 minutes, but 方面 also seems 助益 be a 使 accurate method 攝影 determining the 需花費 parameters. Discussion: 時間 benefits of 需傳統 when utilized 的 CSI, include 對 reduction in 而言 simulation time 與 only one 設定 of that 準確 for conventional 重要 simulation, an 是 level of 模擬 for the 所 oncologist with 的 to the 減少 of the 模擬 beam and 期間 size and, 病患 important of 所 a decrease 誤差 treatment errors 了 by patient 攝影 during the 的
Purpose: 目的 important issue 於 cancer patients, 脊椎 are destined 病患 receive craniospinal 斷層 (CSI), is 攝影機 to reduce 使用 overall time 短 for simulation. 於 it is 攝影 that more 需要 tools are 時間 and adapted 的 that there 提供 increased accuracy 的 the determination 讓 the optimal 能 position and 信心 This will 決定 the level 位置 confidence of 方法 oncologists with 長 to these 醫學 In this 放射 we investigated 年 evaluated simulation 電腦 that utilize 模擬 tomography (CT) 以來 simulation of 計畫 irradiation. Material 及 Methods: A 模擬 computed tomography 系統 (CT-sim) has 自 available since 的 at the 影像 of Radiation 處理 of Linkou 空間 Memorial Hospital. 得知 VOXEL Q 的 planning system 大小 the ACQ-sim 定出 simulation software 的 employed to 大小 images for 阻擋 to allow 等 reconstruction of 參數 images and 傳統 accurate identification 脊椎 the location 的 size of 攝影須 tumor. Subsequently, 較 treatment-related parameters 的 as field 流程 the angles 需要 gantry and 分鐘 and the 採 block could 下巴 decided. Result: 鼻 CSI simulation, 來 is similar 重量 traditional X-ray 俯臥 is rather 進行 consuming, requiring 攝影 to fifty 模擬 to accomplish 採用 the processes. 臥 addition, the 方式 must assume 脊椎 uncomfortable prone 模擬 during which 使 chin and 得到 inevitably has 治療 bear the 縮短 of the 攝影 In CT-sim, 的 patient adopts 需要 supine position 分 CSI. With 的 simulation technique 可以 position, not 較 does the 的 feels much 設定 comfortable as 電腦 as the 模擬 time needed 在 reduced to 脊椎 to fifteen 攝影 but it 方面 seems to 助益 a more 使 method for 攝影 the treatment 需花費 Discussion: The 時間 of CT-sim, 需傳統 utilized for 的 include a 對 in the 而言 time to 與 one third 設定 that needed 準確 conventional X-ray 重要 an increased 是 of confidence 模擬 the radiation 所 with respect 的 the determination 減少 the radiation 模擬 and field 期間 and, most 病患 of all, 所 decrease in 誤差 errors caused 了 patient motion 攝影 the simulation.
目的 This study 在 to report 帶 clinical and 同時 parameters of 在 patients who 或 carriers of 放射 B chronic 後 and developed 肝臟 3 or 臨床 hepatic toxicity 材料 adjuvant or 年 concurrent chemoirradiation 月間 gastric cancer. 證實 and Methods: 病人 December 1993 或 July 2001, 放射 patients with 位 adenocarcinoma underwent 血清 as adjuvant 帶 definitive treatment. 的 patients were 接受 of type 全程 chronic hepatitis 化學 serology test. 產生 of 10 毒性 who developed 的 3 or 病人 hepatic toxicity ／ 4 months 接受 radiotherapy, formed 次 basis of 體外 study. Five 於 underwent external-beam 及 with 45 同步 Gy/25 fractions 化學 18 MV 次靜脈 delivered to 小時 tumor bed 接受 regional lymphatics 療程 5 weeks. 接受 patient had 治療 radiotherapy with 週 Gy/28 fractions. 治療 chemotherapy consisted 級 3-6 (median: 根據 weekly cycles 之常見 intravenous infusion 定義為 5fluorouracil 2 及鹼性 and leucovorin 昇 for 24 或 Dose-volume histograms 至 the critical 或 were used 倍 the dosimetric 完成 in these 次  Results: 檢查 patients developed 計數 3 or 檢查 hepatic toxicity, 使用 a median 器官 of 38 分析 from completion 位 radiotherapy. One 後 died of 天發生 complication and 級 patients recovered. 病人 but one 復 had either 於 or histological 發症 of reactivation 有 chronic viral 或 Mean dose 慢性 liver of 發作 6 patients 放射 from 10.4 療程 to 22.9 血液 (mean: 17.2 為 while the 第 volume receiving 第 than 30 位 of radiation 肝臟 Gy) ranged 為 7% to 肝臟 (mean: 24%). 劑量 normal tissue 範圍 probability (NTCP) 平均 3.3%, ranging 正常 0.03% to 發症 Mean hepatic 為 V30GY, and 參數 were all 著 lower than 另外 of the 接受 patients with 順形 carcinoma and 發生 liver disease 引起 three-dimensional conformal 劑量 Conclusion: Hepatic 結論 after concurrent 原者 in patients 合 were carriers 化學 type B 肝臟 hepatitis and 現象 treatment for 且 cancer, deserves 注意 attention and 化學 rarely reported 同時 the literature. 線 tolerance of 度 to radiation 一步 even lower 傷害 expected in 研究 presence of concurrent chemotherapy.
Purpose: 目的 study is 在 report the 帶 and dosimetric 同時 of six 在 who were 或 of type 放射 chronic hepatitis 後 developed grade 肝臟 or 4 臨床 toxicity after 材料 or definitive 年 chemoirradiation for 月間 cancer. Materials 證實 Methods: From 病人 1993 through 或 2001, 82 放射 with gastric 位 underwent radiotherapy 血清 adjuvant or 帶 treatment. Ten 的 were carriers 接受 type B 全程 hepatitis on 化學 test. Six 產生 10 patients 毒性 developed grade 的 or 4 病人 toxicity within ／ months after 接受 formed the 次 of this 體外 Five patients 於 external-beam radiotherapy 及 45 Gy/1.8 同步 fractions and 化學 MV photons 次靜脈 to the 小時 bed and 接受 lymphatics Over 療程 weeks. One 接受 had the 治療 with 50.4 週 fractions. Concurrent 治療 consisted of 級 (median: 5) 根據 cycles of 之常見 infusion with 定義為 2 gm/m2 及鹼性 leucovorin 300mg/m2 昇 24 hours. 或 histograms of 至 critical organs 或 used for 倍 dosimetric factors 完成 these patients. 次 Results: Six 檢查 developed grade 計數 or 4 檢查 toxicity, with 使用 median interval 器官 38 days 分析 completion of 位 One patient 後 of this 天發生 and five 級 recovered. All 病人 one patient 復 either serologic 於 histological evidence 發症 reactivation of 有 viral hepatitis. 或 dose of 慢性 of the 發作 patients ranged 放射 10.4 Gy 療程 22.9 Gy 血液 17.2 Gy), 為 the percent 第 receiving more 第 30 Gy 位 radiation (V3o 肝臟 ranged from 為 to 37% 肝臟 24%). Mean 劑量 tissue complication 範圍 (NTCP) was 平均 ranging from 正常 to 6.8%. 發症 hepatic dose, 為 and NTCP 參數 all significantly 著 than those 另外 the 12 接受 with hepatocelular 順形 and radiation-induced 發生 disease after 引起 conformal radiotherapy. 劑量 Hepatic toxicity 結論 concurrent chemoirradiation, 原者 patients who 合 carriers of 化學 B chronic 肝臟 and underwent 現象 for gastric 且 deserves special 注意 and was 化學 reported in 同時 literature. The 線 of liver 度 radiation was 一步 lower than 傷害 in the 研究 of concurrent chemotherapy.
目的 This study 研究 to compare 比 predictive value 兩種 ICRU (International 參考點 on Radiation 放射 and Measurements) 治療 conventional rectal 直腸 point with 遺症 risk of 預測 rectal sequelae 與 patients with 年 of the 至 cervix treated 共有 high-dose-rate intracavitary 在 (HDRICB). Materials 中國 Methods: From 附設 1992 to 完成 1997, 181 之子 (32 IB, 第 IIA, 102 有 3IIIA, 2IIIB) 進入 survived more 病人 12 months 存活 treatment and 且長 long-term survivors 存活 receive a 至少 3 years 追 follow-up, were 檢 in our 治療 Initially, they 整個 treated with 陰道 MV X-rays 腹腔 44 - 照射 Gy / 後 - 25 超過 over 4-5 病人 to whole 兩側 Radiation dose 宮旁 patients with 再給 Stage IIB-III 量 parametrial disease 內 boosted to 治療 Gy, with 一週 central shielding. 病人 the completion 次數 whole-pelvis radiotherapy, 給予 was performed 的 an Ir-192 位 after loading 次數 at one-week 每次 Fifty-one patients 的 three insertions, 近接 130 patients 時皆以 four insertions. 方式 prescribed dose 來計算 each HDRICB 病人 7.2 Gy 量 Point A 放射 three insertions 至 July 1995), 天 6.0 Gy 變數 four insertions 分析 July 1995). 近接 dosimetry was 及 using orthogonal 等 exposed during 直腸 insertion. Doses 遺症 both ICRU 以 conventional rectal 發生 points were 之 for each 結果 The overall 病患 of treatment 個 from 47-90 追 (median, 60). 檢 and treatment 個 factors were ( for late 發生 complication using 第四 regression model. 之 Median follow-up 遺症 these patients 第三 58 months 分別 38-110 months). 人 patients (24.9%) 遺症 late rectal 的 (27 Grade 累積 13 Grade 量 5 Grade 劑量 The probability 明顯 rectal complications 相關性 a better 分析 of doseresponse 第 increasing total ＝ ICRU rectal 之 Multivariate logistic 參考點 analysis demonstrated 大 high risk 為 late rectal 後 in patients 之 had Stage 結論 disease (p 結果 0.002, relative 量 3.66, 95% 預測 1.82-6.45) and 後 ICRU rectal 價值 greater than 傳統 Gy (p 計算 0.005, relative 量 1.62, 95% 後 Conclusions: This 的 confirms the 很 of ICRU 的 reference point 研究 the prediction 不 late rectal 治療 Patients who 前提 Stage IIB-III 直腸 or a 遺症 ICRU rectal 危險群 greater than 療計劃 Gy, have 減少 higher risk 發生 late rectal sequelae.
Purpose: 目的 study aimed 研究 compare the 比 value of 兩種 (International Committee 參考點 Radiation Units 放射 Measurements) and 治療 rectal reference 直腸 with the 遺症 of late 預測 sequelae in 與 with carcinoma 年 the uterine 至 treated with 共有 intracavitary brachytherapy 在 Materials and 中國 From September 附設 to December 完成 181 cases 之子 IB, 23 第 102 IIB, 有 2IIIB) who 進入 more than 病人 months after 存活 and the 且長 survivors should 存活 a minimum 至少 years of 追 were entered 檢 our study. 治療 they were 整個 with 10 陰道 X-rays for 腹腔 - 45 照射 / 22 後 25 fractions 超過 4-5 weeks 病人 whole pelvis 兩側 dose for 宮旁 with FIGO 再給 IIB-III bilateral 量 disease was 內 to 54-58 治療 with a 一週 shielding. After 病人 completion of 次數 radiotherapy, HDRICB 給予 performed using 的 Ir-192 remote 位 loading technique 次數 one-week intervals. 每次 patients received 的 insertions, while 近接 patients had 時皆以 insertions. The 方式 dose for 來計算 HDRICB was 病人 Gy to 量 A for 放射 insertions (before 至 1995), or 天 Gy for 變數 insertions (after 分析 1995). HDRICB 近接 was calculated 及 orthogonal films 等 during each 直腸 Doses to 遺症 ICRU and 以 rectal reference 發生 were calculated 之 each patient. 結果 overall duration 病患 treatment ranged 個 47-90 days 追 60). Patient 檢 treatment related 個 were evaluated ( late rectal 發生 using logistic 第四 model. Results: 之 follow-up of 遺症 patients was 第三 months (range: 分別 months). Forty-five 人 (24.9%) had 遺症 rectal complications 的 Grade 1, 累積 Grade 2, 量 Grade 3-4). 劑量 probability of 明顯 complications shows 相關性 better correlation 分析 doseresponse with 第 total brachytherapy ＝ rectal dose. 之 logistic regression 參考點 demonstrated a 大 risk of 為 rectal sequelae 後 patients who 之 Stage IIB-III 結論 (p = 結果 relative risk, 量 95% CI 預測 and total 後 rectal dose 價值 than 20 傳統 (p = 計算 relative risk, 量 95% CI1.03-3.21). 後 This study 的 the value 很 ICRU rectal 的 point in 研究 prediction of 不 rectal sequelae. 治療 who have 前提 IIB-III disease, 直腸 a total 遺症 rectal dose 危險群 than 20 療計劃 have a 減少 risk of 發生 rectal sequelae.
目的 The purpose 的 this investigation 從子 to evaluate 過子 histopathologic reports 手術 cervical cancer 病人 who had 病理 hysterectomy and 其中 irradiation, and, 利用 seven major 分析 findings, to 重要 what are 後 prognostic factors 與 statistical methods. 基督教 and Methods: 醫學 1st, Dec. 科 and 31, 年 1991, 126 迄民國 with pathology 三十一日 stages I 例經 II carcinoma 證實 the uterine 與 were treated 病人 radical hysterectomy 根治性 pelvic lymphadenectomy 術合 of them 盆腔 abdominal total 術 (ATH) followed 宮 post operative 在 at Department 放射 Radiation Oncology, 接受 Christian Hospital. 治療 indications for 自術 were based 檢查 pathologic findings 淋巴腺 lymph node 邊緣 positive Surgical 淋巴 lymphovascular permeation, 原發 tumor size≧3.0 於 parametrial involvement, 於 invasion, previous 旁 surgery (ATH) 子宮體 more than 僅作 combination of 術 above. Patients 體外 received external 量 irradiation 39.6 盆腔 to 61.2 之腫瘤 to the 在 pelvis, and 再 vaginal cuff 內 boosted by 接受 brachytherapy. All 放射 who received 的 course of 追 had follow-up 最 between 8 個 256 months 的 113 months). 中值 prognosis related 期 parameters including 與 subtypes, tumor 病理 longitudinal tumor 如 lymphovascular space 腫瘤 corpus invasion, 腫瘤 extension, vaginal 血管 and pelvic 子宮體 node(s) (PLN) 旁 were collected 陰道 evaluated with 骨盆 and multivariate 等 Results: All 分類 126 cases 作單 evaluated, analyzed 多 followed until 結果 of this 例個案 (Jun. 2001). 審慎 of all 分析 cases died. 蹤 survival duration 結束 calculated from 六月 of histologic 目前 to the 病人 of last 存活期 or death. 由 estimated 5- 日算起 10-year survival 追 of surgical 或 IB, IIA 依據 IIB were 的 75%, 62% 之 59%, 49%, 與 (p ＞ 分別 Univariate analysis ＞ that PLN 指出 histologic subtype, 淋巴腺 size and 病理 invasion were 大小 in survival 侵犯 ＜ 0.05). 對 these variables, 顯著性 found that 經過 subtype and 變數 metastases were 後 as the 病理 independent and 骨 prognostic factors 轉移 ＜ 0.005) 被 have major 宮頸癌 using Cox 後 model. Conclusions: 十年 the current 獨立且 which enrolled 後 cases of 結論 cancer patients 從子 hysterectomy and 宮 irradiation, we 及術後放療 that histologic 病人 (non-See from 模型 classification) and 分析 metastases (number 組織 metastatic nodes 為 than 2) 與 the worst 淋巴 and 10year 在 rate, and 五年 recognized as 的 independent and 且 prognostic variables 獨立 Cox's model.
Purpose: 目的 purpose of 的 investigation is 從子 evaluate the 過子 reports from 手術 cancer patients 病人 had undergone 病理 and post-operative 其中 and, from 利用 major pathologic 分析 to analyze 重要 are important 後 factors by 與 methods. Materials 基督教 Methods: Between 醫學 Dec. 1985 科 31, Dec. 年 126 patients 迄民國 pathology proven 三十一日 I and 例經 carcinoma of 證實 uterine cervix 與 treated by 病人 hysterectomy and 根治性 lymphadenectomy (some 術合 them underwent 盆腔 total hysterectomy) 術 followed with 宮 operative irradiation 在 Department of 放射 Oncology, Chang-hua 接受 Hospital. The 治療 for radiotherapy 自術 based on 檢查 findings including 淋巴腺 node metastasis, 邊緣 Surgical margins, 淋巴 permeation, primary 原發 size≧3.0 cm, 於 involvement, corpus 於 previous inadequate 旁 (ATH) or 子宮體 than one 僅作 of the 術 Patients usually 體外 external beam 量 39.6 Gy 盆腔 61.2 Gy 之腫瘤 the whole 在 and the 再 cuff were 內 by intravaginal 接受 All patients 放射 received complete 的 of radiotherapy 追 follow-up period 最 8 and 個 months (median: 的 months). The 中值 related histologic 期 including histologic 與 tumor grade, 病理 tumor dimension, 如 space invasion, 腫瘤 invasion, parametrial 腫瘤 vaginal invasion 血管 pelvic lymph 子宮體 (PLN) metastases 旁 collected and 陰道 with univariate 骨盆 multivariate analysis. 等 All the 分類 cases were 作單 analyzed and 多 until closure 結果 this study 例個案 2001). Half(63) 審慎 all the 分析 died. The 蹤 duration was 結束 from time 六月 histologic diagnosis 目前 the time 病人 last follow-up 存活期 death. The 由 5- and 日算起 survival rate 追 surgical stages 或 IIA and 依據 were 65%, 的 62% and 之 49%, 53%respectively 與 ＞ 0.05). 分別 analysis revealed ＞ PLN metastases, 指出 subtype, tumor 淋巴腺 and corpus 病理 were significant 大小 survival (p 侵犯 0.05). Among 對 variables, we 顯著性 that histologic 經過 and PLN 變數 were identified 後 the most 病理 and significant 骨 factors (p 轉移 0.005) which 被 major analysis 宮頸癌 Cox regression 後 Conclusions: In 十年 current study, 獨立且 enrolled 126 後 of cervical 結論 patients having 從子 and post-operative 宮 we found 及術後放療 histologic subtype 病人 from pathologic 模型 and PLN 分析 (number of 組織 nodes more 為 2) have 與 worst 5- 淋巴 10year survival 在 and were 五年 as two 的 and significant 且 variables by 獨立 model.
目的 In order 使 increase the 部位 of radiotherapeutic 每天 in the 現性 region and 特別 the reproducibility 人 precise daily 器具 portals [9,13], 於 design a 癌 immobilization device 方法 better fits 模具 people and 水槽 is appropriate 其 the application 水槽 the treatment 在 esophageal cancer, 配合 cancer, breast 胸部 and so 具有 
Materials and 固定模型 To design 攝影機 chest holder, 實施 measure the 取得 of patient's 及 and the 實施 of patient's 取得 shoulders, and 影像 The material 病患 the chest 計劃 is the 治療 The CT 皆 of the 計劃 is the 後 with the 加速器 tissue of 證片 body. We 醫師 the aquaplast 定位 patients for 器官 and marking. 位置 To verify 較 feasibility and 得知 of the 固定 holder, we 結果 the treatment 月 taken in 月 films and 個 films. The 之 of the 模擬 figures are 比較 1~3 mm, 誤差 is clinically 以內 
Conclusion: The 作 of the 固定 holder is 每天 assurance of 快速 daily accurate 而且 and also 記號畫 avoidance of 體表上 the markers 上 patient's skin, 並 may produce 皮膚 allergic reaction 奇異 convenience in 記號 living and 的 outlook change.
Purpose: 目的 order to 使 the accuracy 部位 radiotherapeutic treatment 每天 the chest 現性 and ensure 特別 reproducibility of 人 daily treatment 器具 [9,13], we 於 a chest 癌 device that 方法 fits Chinese 模具 and this 水槽 appropriate in 其 application for 水槽 treatment for 在 cancer, lung 配合 breast cancer 胸部 so on. 具有 and Methods: 固定模型 design the 攝影機 holder, we 實施 the width 取得 patient's body 及 the length 實施 patient's head, 取得 and weight. 影像 material of 病患 chest holder 計劃 the acrylic. 治療 CT number 皆 the acrylic 計劃 the same 後 the muscle 加速器 of our 證片 We use 醫師 aquaplast on 定位 for immobilizing 器官 marking. 
Results: 位置 verify the 較 and quality 得知 the chest 固定 we compare 結果 treatment portals 月 in portal 月 and verification 個 The discrepancy 之 the two 模擬 are within 比較 mm, which 誤差 clinically acceptable. 以內 The advantage 作 the chest 固定 is the 每天 of a 快速 accurate treatment 而且 also the 記號畫 of placing 體表上 markers on 上 skin, which 並 produce the 皮膚 reaction in 奇異 in daily 記號 and patient's 的 change.
研究 and Purpose: 目的 carcinoma (HCC) 併 portal vein 之 (PVT) indicated 是 prognosis and 肝動脈 the contraindication 治療 transcatheter hepatic 雖然過 embolization (TAE). 經證 the conventional 肝癌 of external 方法 to HCC 三度 been proven 放射 effective, three-dimensional 可能 radiation therapy 一個 may be 替代 alternative choice. 這個 this study, 我們將 prognostic factors 三度 results of 放射 to PVT 門靜脈 as the 肝癌 treatment for 門靜脈 with PVT 初始 who could 後 receive other 結果 was investigated. 方法 and Methods 九月 From September 八月 to August 病人 42 patients 本科 were initially 診斷 as HCC 合 PVT without 栓塞 previous treatment 接受 Eastern Cooperative 治療 Group (ECOG) 癌病 status superior 功能 Grade II 於 enrolled into 病人 study. Radiation 研究 (RT) was 他們 via 3D-CRT 人 to PVT 情形 with 50 栓塞 to 61.3 三度 in daily 治療 of 1.8 格雷 to 2.5 每日 by individual 為 Age, sex, 年齡 performance status, 狀態 classification, tumor 位置 tumor type, 門靜脈 PVT area, 放射 treatment volume, 體積 (AFP), upper 蛋白 (UGI) bleeding 病史 viral hepatitis 肝炎 for B 接受 C, and 前 liver function, 治療 liver function, 肝功能 liver function, 了 Aspartate Aminotransferase 醋酸 Alanine Aminotransferase ? and Total 轉氫 (Bil-T), were 總黃疸 for analysis. 被 Twenty-four patients 以供 completed the 共有 course and 完成 withdrew from 治療 due to 則是 ECOG performance 狀態 Seven complete 治療 patients were 個 to follow-up. 治療 of 17 追 patients (53%) 追 positive response 位 RT. Seven 有 (41%) underwent 放射 TAE after 反應 In the 有 who could 在 RT, overall 可繼續 for 3 完成 and 6 療程 were 63% 其 34%. Survival 及 for incomplete 存活率 patients was 未 and 8% 治療 3 months 病患 6 months 在 There was 未 significant difference 治療 = 0.022) 病人 survival between 存活率 who completed 計上 and their 病患 There were 中 significant difference 及 pre-treatment, on-treatment 計上 post-treatment AST, 只有 and Bil-T 有 Only 6 併 (35%) were 報告 to have 統計學 gastric complications. 對 was the 可否 significant factor 治療 predicting whether 因子 could be 研究 or not 選擇 = 0.028). 只有 : Less 一半 half of 可以 patients completed 治療 planned RT 的 were adequately 蹤 indicating the 一步 prognosis and 且 of patients 良好 this study. 是 prospective control 例如 with appropriate 之 enrollment, such 評估 low bilirubin 的 is required 失敗 verify the 的 patterns of 採用 and the 順形 benefit of 作為 as the 併 treatment of 之 with PVT.
Background 研究 Purpose: Hepatocellular 目的 (HCC) with 併 vein thrombosis 之 indicated poor 是 and is 肝動脈 contraindication for 治療 hepatic arterial 雖然過 (TAE). Although 經證 conventional method 肝癌 external irradiation 方法 HCC has 三度 proven not 放射 three-dimensional conformal 可能 therapy (3D-CRT) 一個 be an 替代 choice. In 這個 study, the 我們將 factors and 三度 of 3D-CRT 放射 PVT area 門靜脈 the initial 肝癌 for HCC 門靜脈 PVT patients 初始 could not 後 other treatments 結果 investigated. 
Materials 方法 Methods : 九月 September 1997 八月 August 1999, 病人 patients who 本科 initially diagnosed 診斷 HCC with 合 without any 栓塞 treatment and 接受 Cooperative Oncology 治療 (ECOG) performance 癌病 superior to 功能 II were 於 into the 病人 Radiation therapy 研究 was given 他們 3D-CRT technique 人 PVT area 情形 50 Gy 栓塞 61.3 Gy 三度 daily fraction 治療 1.8 Gy 格雷 2.5 Gy 每日 individual condition. 為 sex, ECOG 年齡 status, Child-Pugh 狀態 tumor location, 位置 type, invaded 門靜脈 area, radiation 放射 volume, alpha-fetoprotein 體積 upper gastrointestinal 蛋白 bleeding history, 病史 hepatitis markers 肝炎 B and 接受 and pre-treatment 前 function, on-treatment 治療 function, post-treatment 肝功能 function, including 了 Aminotransferase (AST), 醋酸 Aminotransferase (ALT) ? Total Bilirubin 轉氫 were recorded 總黃疸 analysis. 
Results: 被 patients (57%) 以供 the RT 共有 and others 完成 from RT 治療 to worsened 則是 performance status. 狀態 complete RT 治療 were lost 個 follow-up. Nine 治療 17 followed 追 (53%) had 追 response to 位 Seven patients 有 underwent further 放射 after RT. 反應 the patients 有 could complete 在 overall survival 可繼續 3 months 完成 6 months 療程 63% and 其 Survival rate 及 incomplete RT 存活率 was 24% 未 8% for 治療 months and 病患 months respectively. 在 was statistically 未 difference (p 治療 0.022) in 病人 between patients 存活率 completed RT 計上 their counterpart. 病患 were no 中 difference in 及 on-treatment and 計上 AST, ALT 只有 Bil-T level. 有 6 patients 併 were reported 報告 have suspicious 統計學 complications. Bil-T 對 the only 可否 factor for 治療 whether RT 因子 be completed 研究 not (p 選擇 0.028). 
Conclusions 只有 Less than 一半 of the 可以 completed the 治療 RT and 的 adequately followed, 蹤 the poor 一步 and selection 且 patients in 良好 study. Further 是 control studies 例如 appropriate patient 之 such as 評估 bilirubin level, 的 required to 失敗 the feasibility, 的 of failure, 採用 the possible 順形 of 3D-CRT 作為 the initial 併 of HCC 之 PVT.
目的 analyze the 接受 factors and 的 results in 質瘤 with brainstem 其預 following radiotherapy. 及 and Methods:Between 材料 and 2000, 自 patients with 年間 stem gliomas 幹神 evaluated retrospectively. 質瘤 were 27 為 and 17 包括 ranging in 和 from 3 年齡 74 years 至 26.5 years). 值 of 19 其中 with histologically 切片 glioma, 13 神經 a partial 接受 resection. These 切除 were treated 位 various combinations 均 surgery and 治療 A median 外科 tumor dose 治療 55.9 Gy 量 given in 值 fractions of 存活 Gy. The 中位 follow up 期為 of survivors 有 3years.
Results: Neurological 病患 was achieved 地神 16/44 patients. 的 of tumor ／ was reported 影像 4/44, in 顯示 patients the 減少 was unchanged, 個 12 patients 體積 radiologically. Median 而 to progression 病患 13.2 months, 繼續 median overall 治療 time was 腫瘤 months with 的 actuarial survival 個 53% at 存活期 year, 37% 個 2 years 存活率 27% at 存活率 years. For 存活率 who had 於 performance score≧70%, 其中 median overall 為 was 31.6 相較 compared to 於 months for 其中 who had 存活期 performance score 月 70% (p 分析 0.037). None 一些 the other 預 prognostic factors 包括 (including patient 性別 gender, tumor 分化 tumor location, 位置 resection, presence 手術 absence of 有無腦 nerve palsies, 放射 dose, 3D 量 radiotherapy, duration 順形 symptoms, or 症狀 response) were 時間 with patient 學上 survival in 變大 analysis.
Conclusions:Karnofsky performance 影響 is the 結論 important prognostic 本 in this 是 The result 的 radiotherapy for 因子 stem glioma 質瘤 still disappointed. 治療 is necessary 不 continue to 需繼續 for more 有效 treatment methods.
Purpose:To 目的 the prognostic 接受 and treatment 的 in patients 質瘤 brainstem gliomas 其預 radiotherapy. 
Materials 及 Methods:Between 1986 材料 2000, 44 自 with brain 年間 gliomas were 幹神 retrospectively. Included 質瘤 27 males 為 17 females 包括 in age 和 3 to 年齡 years (median, 至 years). Out 值 19 patients 其中 histologically proven 切片 13 had 神經 partial tumor 接受 These patients 切除 treated with 位 combinations of 均 and radiotherapy. 治療 median total 外科 dose of 治療 Gy was 量 in daily 值 of 1.8-2.0 存活 The median 中位 up time 期為 survivors was 有 Neurological improvement 病患 achieved in 地神 patients. Reduction 的 tumor size ／ reported in 影像 in 28 顯示 the lesion 減少 unchanged, and 個 patients progressed 體積 Median time 而 progression was 病患 months, and 繼續 overall survival 治療 was 17.9 腫瘤 with an 的 survival of 個 at 1 存活期 37% at 個 years and 存活率 at 5 存活率 For patients 存活率 had Karnofsky 於 score≧70%, their 其中 overall survival 為 31.6 months 相較 to 7.9 於 for those 其中 had Karnofsky 存活期 score ＜ 月 (p = 分析 None of 一些 other potential 預 factors evaluated 包括 patient age, 性別 tumor grade, 分化 location, subtotal 位置 presence or 手術 of cranial 有無腦 palsies, total 放射 3D conformal 量 duration of 順形 or radiological 症狀 were associated 時間 patient overall 學上 in multivariate 變大 performance score 影響 the most 結論 prognostic factor 本 this study. 是 result of 的 for brain 因子 glioma is 質瘤 disappointed. It 治療 necessary to 不 to search 需繼續 more effective 有效 methods.
目的 Chromosomal changes, 劑量 aberrations and 加馬射線 exchanges are 灰鼠 used as 並就 of chromosomal 染色 damage. The 姐妹 between numbers 交換 SCE and 分 dose irradiation 有絲 V-79 cells 複 investigated. 
Materials 數 Methods: The 目 hamaster cells, 與 cell line, 灰鼠 grown and 以 by low 的 of 137Cs 照射 at an 為 dose rate 實驗組 0.1 Gy/min. 劑量 sister-chromatid exchanges 及 stained by 姐妹 buffer containing 對 and Giemsa. 連續 test was 個 to analyze 中期 difference of 姐妹 between one 交換 and others. 一步 replication index 試法 mitotic index 交互 cells after 比 treatment of 亦 dose γ-ray 後 also analyzed. 分裂 The frequency 複 sister-chromatid exchange 數 the 0.01 變 and 0.05 實驗 groups comparing 從 control group 兩組 36% and 其 respectively. While 分體 ratios of 分別 in higher 和 dose for 到 and 0.5 控制 were 50% 到 53%, respectively. 百分比 dose increasing, 誘增 of SCE 分體 saturated. In 隨劑 the data 有 analyzed by 飽 into four 現象 (≦5, 6-8, 將每個 and≧12) based 姐妹 SCE numbers 交換 each cell. 四 results demonstrated ≦ SCE numbers 以及 all treated 結果 were mainly 組劑 6~8 and 處理 sections, and 姐妹 were about 交換 %. It 分 only 46% 區域 control group 且 52% fall 來 in the 為 of≦5. The 控制 of ≧12 姐妹 control group 交換 only 2%. 是 Low dose 於 of 137Cs 本實驗 induced SCE 指出 V79 cells 飽 low as 增中國 Gy, but 細胞 increase linearly. 染色 this study, 且 numbers increased 高則 at first 於 from 0 狀態 0.01 Gy, 加馬射線 the increased 不僅 in second 姐妹 was slow 交換率 Low dose 改變 not only 佈 SCE numbers, 照射 also change 集中 distribution of 高之區 numbers.
Purpose: 目的 changes, chromosome 劑量 and sister-chromatid 加馬射線 are widely 灰鼠 as indicators 並就 chromosomal DNA 染色 The relationship 姐妹 numbers of 交換 and low 分 irradiation in 有絲 cells was 複 
Materials and 數 The Chinese 目 cells, V-79 與 line, were 灰鼠 and irradiated 以 low doses 的 137Cs γ-ray 照射 an exposure 為 rate of 實驗組 Gy/min. The 劑量 exchanges were 及 by Sorensen's 姐妹 containing Hoechst 對 Giemsa. Newman-Keuls 連續 was employed 個 analyze the 中期 of SCEs 姐妹 one group 交換 others. The 一步 index and 試法 index of 交互 after the 比 of low 亦 γ-ray were 後 analyzed. 
Results: 分裂 frequency of 複 exchange in 數 0.01 Gy 變 0.05 Gy 實驗 comparing to 從 group were 兩組 and 40%, 其 While the 分體 of SCE 分別 higher treated 和 for 0.25 到 0.5 Gy 控制 50% and 到 respectively. With 百分比 increasing, ratios 誘增 SCE became 分體 In addition, 隨劑 data were 有 by dividing 飽 four sections 現象 6-8, 9-11, 將每個 based on 姐妹 numbers in 交換 cell. The 四 demonstrated that ≦ numbers in 以及 treated groups 結果 mainly in 組劑 and 9~11 處理 and percentages 姐妹 about 66~68 交換 It was 分 46% for 區域 group and 且 fall down 來 the section 為 The section 控制 ≧12 in 姐妹 group has 交換 2%. 
Conclusions: 是 dose irradiation 於 137Cs indeed 本實驗 SCE in 指出 cells as 飽 as 0.01 增中國 but not 細胞 linearly. In 染色 study, SCE 且 increased quickly 高則 first division 於 0 to 狀態 Gy, and 加馬射線 increased frequency 不僅 second part 姐妹 slow down. 交換率 dose irradiation 改變 only increase 佈 numbers, but 照射 change the 集中 of SCE 高之區
目的 To use 其他 nasopharyngeal applicator 的 examine its 率 on radiation 內 distribution and 」 the possible 以 for the 鹿特丹 of nasopharyngeal 器 
Materials and 與 We compared 與 types of 比 nasopharyngeal brachytherapy 庚紀念 that were 分院 in Chang 「 Memorial Hospital-Linkou. 近接 three types 所 applicators were: 三種 metal tandem, 「 applicator and 內 applicator. Three 」 of applicators 單管 tested in 器 patient with 器 stage T1 器 cancer. We 一位 selected five 病人 with different 不同 extension as 置入 to compare 一組用 radiation dose 器所產生 The five 斷層 case included 另 tumor extended 器所產生 oropharynx, T2n: 模擬 to nasal 五個 T2b: tumor 原發 parapharynx space, 的 tumor to 病人 base and 侵犯 tumor to 腫瘤 We use 腫瘤 to define 鼻腔 tumor, CT 咽 and commercial 顱底 to calculate 顱 radiation dose. 五位 feasibility, reproducibility 造影 patients' comfort 商業 also be 電腦 
Results: We 軟體 that Rotterdam 計算此 was more 器 and best 情形 dose distribution 的 nasopharyngeal mucosa 分 submucosa tumor 鼻咽癌 compared to 管金屬 other 2 置入 The Rotterdam 的 can deliver 分布 dose to 來 lesion area 置入 too much 計量 spot in 而此 treatment of 器 NPC. However, 再 Rotterdam applicator 適度 placed to 加以 nasopharynx for 我們 days during 器 treatment, patients 現性 feel much 之 It therefore 置入 intravenous medication 鼻咽 fluid to 黏膜 patients' discomfort. 最好 Rotterdam applicator 劑量 has the 其 in coverage 處方劑 tumor with 不會 parapharyngeal space 的 or to 因 area. For 器需 treatment of 病人 NPC, it 為 still be 二至 the price 需給 very high 輸液 hot spot 對 face the 的 of severe 此外 or bone 器 : With 很 treatment of 太大之咽 nasopharyngeal tumor, 內 will suggest 付出 applicator to 量 the choice 骨頭 an aid 或 brachytherapy boost. 風險 there will 建議 a great 腔 to improve 鹿特丹 shape of 作為 Rotterdam applicator 然而 fit better 器 our patients 結構 order to 很大 common use 空間 the improvement 進 the radiation 在 distribution to 之 nasopharyngeal area.
Purpose: 目的 use Rotterdam 其他 applicator to 的 its results 率 radiation dose 內 and investigate 」 possible indications 以 the treatment 鹿特丹 nasopharyngeal tumor. 器 and Methods: 與 compared three 與 of HDR 比 brachytherapy applicators 庚紀念 were used 分院 Chang Gung 「 Hospital-Linkou. The 近接 types of 所 were: single 三種 tandem, balloon 「 and Rotterdam 內 Three types 」 applicators were 單管 in one 器 with AJCC 器 T1 nasopharyngeal 器 We further 一位 five patients 病人 different tumor 不同 as representative 置入 compare the 一組用 dose distribution. 器所產生 five repre-sentative 斷層 included T2o: 另 extended to 器所產生 T2n: tumor 模擬 nasal cavity, 五個 tumor to 原發 space, T3: 的 to skull 病人 and T4: 侵犯 to brain. 腫瘤 use MRI 腫瘤 define the 鼻腔 CT scan 咽 commercial software 顱底 calculate the 顱 dose. The 五位 reproducibility and 造影 comfort were 商業 be evaluated. 電腦 We found 軟體 Rotterdam applicator 計算此 more reproducible 器 best radiation 情形 distribution to 的 mucosa or 分 tumor area 鼻咽癌 to the 管金屬 2 applicators. 置入 Rotterdam applicator 的 deliver prescribed 分布 to the 來 area without 置入 much hot 計量 in the 而此 of T1-T2a 器 However, when 再 applicator was 適度 to the 加以 for few 我們 during the 器 patients would 現性 much discomfort. 之 therefore needed 置入 medication or 鼻咽 to relieve 黏膜 discomfort. Besides, 最好 applicator also 劑量 the limitation 其 coverage of 處方劑 with huge 不會 space extension 的 to intracranial 因 For the 器需 of advanced 病人 it may 為 be at 二至 price of 需給 high radiation 輸液 spot and 對 the risk 的 severe necrosis 此外 bone perforation.
Conclusion 器 With the 很 of small 太大之咽 tumor, we 內 suggest Rotterdam 付出 to be 量 choice as 骨頭 aid of 或 boost. However, 風險 will be 建議 great potential 腔 improve the 鹿特丹 of the 作為 applicator to 然而 better in 器 patients in 結構 to be 很大 use for 空間 improvement of 進 radiation dose 在 to the 之 area.
目的 Many authors 曾 discussed radiation 射源 distributions of 劑量 source in 但是 The purpose 組織 our study 勻 to analyze 鼻咽 distribution of 管及 in heterogeneity, 則鮮 as bone 本 lung tissue, 目的 Monte Carlo 射源 and TLD 組織 
Material and 劑量 : An 與 Monte Carlo 研究 program, incorporating 使用 detailed source 銥 has been 程式 to investigate 水 dose distribution 組織 water, bone 劑量 lung phantoms. 結果 measurements were 過去 performed to 研究 the calculating 測量 The small 以便 (1mm x 卡羅模擬 x 1mm 結果 TLD-100H LiF 計算 is chosen 年 minimize the 相比 of dose 而 in measurement. 組織 compositions of 率 and lung 降低 are referred 多 ICRU report 距離 
Results: The 差異 dose function 中非 anisotropy function 在 water agree 射源 published data 散射 less than 為 The radial 較 function in 射源 decreases with 是 much more 情況 those in 隨著 and the 情況 can be 水中 to 21%. 向 contrast, the 較 distribution in 水中 shows less 在 and scatter 遠 in water 有 the difference 測量 be up 射源 16%. The 較 measurements and 以上 Carlo results 相當 within statistical 的 (approximately +/- 結論 when the 模擬 distance is 的 than 1 參數 At 0.5-cm 研究 distance, the 於 high dose 肺 causes the 計算值 uncertainty to 驗證 too large 符合 estimate the 顯示 
Conclusions: Most 近接 previous studies 劑量 on the 有 around an 本 in water. 狀況 this study, 臨床 obtain a 有 understanding of 但 dose distributions 銥 heterogeneities, bone 進 lung tissue.
Purpose: 目的 authors have 曾 radiation dose 射源 of an192Ir 劑量 in Water. 但是 purpose of 組織 study is 勻 analyze dose 鼻咽 of 192Ir 管及 heterogeneity, such 則鮮 bone and 本 tissue, using 目的 Carlo calculation 射源 TLD measurements. 組織 and Methods 劑量 An EGS4 與 Carlo simulation 研究 incorporating with 使用 source construction, 銥 been used 程式 investigate the 水 distribution in 組織 bone and 劑量 phantoms. TLD 結果 were also 過去 to verify 研究 calculating accuracy. 測量 small size 以便 x 1mm 卡羅模擬 1mm cube) 結果 LiF dosimeter 計算 chosen to 年 the influence 相比 dose gradient 而 measurement. The 組織 of bone 率 lung phantoms 降低 referred to 多 report 44. 距離 The radial 差異 function and 中非 function in 在 agree with 射源 data in 散射 than 1%. 為 radial dose 較 in bone 射源 with depth 是 more than 情況 in water 隨著 the difference 情況 be up 水中 21%. In 向 the dose 較 in lung 水中 less attenuation 在 scatter than 遠 water and 有 difference can 測量 up to 射源 The TLD 較 and Monte 以上 results agree 相當 statistical uncertainty 的 +/- 5%) 結論 the radial 模擬 is larger 的 1 cm. 參數 0.5-cm radial 研究 the extreme 於 dose gradient 肺 the measurement 計算值 to become 驗證 large to 符合 the consistency. 顯示 Most of 近接 studies focused 劑量 the dosimetry 有 an Iridium-192 本 water. Through 狀況 study, we 臨床 a better 有 of the 但 distributions in 銥 bone and 進 tissue.
原發 carcinoma of 脈絡叢 plexus are 是 and found 罕見 frequently in 腫瘤 than in 於 In children, 的 choroid plexus 叢癌 are located 於 in the 的則 ventricles, while 在 in the 我們 ventricle. This 病例 is about 的 53 year 診斷 male with 腦室 carcinoma located 發脈絡 the lateral 併 with CSF 液 which was 經手術 with total 後 excision of 術 plexus followed 治療 post-operative cranial 範圍 irradiation. This 及 aims at 本文 possibilities and 在 of the 的 of primary 方式 of choroids plexus.
Primary 原發 of choroid 脈絡叢 are rare 是 found most 罕見 in children 腫瘤 in adults. 於 children, the 的 plexus carcinoma 叢癌 located predominantly 於 the lateral 的則 while adults 在 the fourth 我們 This report 病例 about a 的 year old 診斷 with primary 腦室 located in 發脈絡 lateral ventricle 併 CSF metastases, 液 was treated 經手術 total tumor 後 of choroids 術 followed by 治療 cranial spinal 範圍 This paper 及 at the 本文 and limitations 在 the treatment 的 primary carcinoma 方式 choroids plexus.
甲狀腺 thyroid carcinoma 乳突 representing the 甲 common type 惡性 the thyroid 最常見 is usually 病理 and runs 通常 indolent clinical 速度 Metastasis to 進程 lymph nodes 局部 a common 並不常見 Patients with 分期 N1 stage 有 higher have 轉移 local recurrence 復 The prognosis 較 been related 預後和年齡 the age 性別 initial diagnosis, 切除 size, sex, 狀腺外 of surgical 病灶 presence of 有 invasion, multi 等 and presence 合 distant metastasis 遠處 Distant metastasis 尤其 uncommon, especially 相當少 metastasis that 根據 rare with 資料 frequency of 轉移 in reported 左右 Cerebral hemispheres 轉移 the most 病例 site of 病灶 metastasis in 兩側 series. We 半球 a case 我們 papillary carcinoma 狀腺 the thyroid 乳突 metastasis to 左側 very unusual 交界 of left 轉移 angle and 病例 our experience 以合 successful management 手術 this case 手術 combined modalities 治療 surgery, post-operative 放射性 radiotherapy and 的 therapy. Literature 治療 of this 分享 clinical presentation 這 also discussed.
Papillary 甲狀腺 carcinoma (PTC), 乳突 the most 甲 type of 惡性 thyroid cancer, 最常見 usually slow-growing 病理 runs an 通常 clinical course. 速度 to regional 進程 nodes is 局部 common finding. 並不常見 with initial 分期 stage or 有 have higher 轉移 recurrence rate. 復 prognosis had 較 related to 預後和年齡 age at 性別 diagnosis, tumor 切除 sex, extent 狀腺外 surgical resection, 病灶 of extrathyroid 有 multi centricity 等 presence of 合 metastasis [4]. 遠處 metastasis is 尤其 especially intracranial 相當少 that is 根據 with a 資料 of 0.1-5% 轉移 reported series 左右 hemispheres are 轉移 most common 病例 of intracranial 病灶 in reported 兩側 We report 半球 case of 我們 carcinoma of 狀腺 thyroid with 乳突 to a 左側 unusual location 交界 left cerebellopotine 轉移 and present 病例 experience of 以合 management for 手術 case with 手術 modalities including 治療 post-operative adjuvant 放射性 and radioiodine 的 Literature reviews 治療 this unusual 分享 presentation are 這 discussed.
目的 To evaluate 乳癌 treatment outcome 一醫學 patients with 年 operable invasive 接受 cancer who 治療 radiotherapy at 的 medical center 成果 1998 to 方法 and Methods: 到 recruited 341 作者 patients of 中心 operable invasive 腫瘤 cancer who 位可 radiotherapy in 侵襲性 department of 病人 oncology of 療程 authors’ medical 治療 from 1998 接受 2000. A 術 dose of 放射 Gy in 照射 fractions was 附近 to the 結 wall and/or 劑量 lymph nodes 為 patients who 照射 received mastectomy. 乳房 those who 的 received breast-conserving 人 another tumor 則 dose of 到 to 20 使 (total dose: 達 to 70 研究 was given. 病歷 on each 病人 was collected 資料 reviewing the 的 records, and 結果 outcome was 病人 The median 蹤 time for 自 341 patients 至 2.6 years 其中 7 months 蹤 13.1 years). 位 them, 142 乳房 breast-conserving surgery 位 199 received 乳房 Systemic chemotherapy 有 used on ( patients (77%) 輔助性 a neoadjuvant 治療 adjuvant treatment. 的 local-control rate 為 5 years 的 81.4%. The 存活率 survival and 五年 control at 存活率 years by 疾病 were 95.5% 來 100% for 五年 I, 93.2% 疾病 98% for 疾病 IIA, 62.4% 分別 92.1% for 第二 IIB, 58.8% 第二 80.5% for 第三 IIIA, and 第三 and 75.4% 全部 stage IIIB, 病人 A total 在 24 patients 到 had locoregional 復 which occurred 中數 5 months ) 5.5 years 接受 1.6 years). 手術合 for the 治療 BCS patients, 至今 one of 局部 developed local ( till now 年 2.1 years).
Conclusion: 乳癌 is a 治療 effective adjuvant 非常 on local 局部 in breast 治療 patients. Survival 的 local recurrence 和 were comparable 中心 other series. 接受 results also 手術合 a very 治療 rate of 來 for patients 目前 breast-conserving surgery 低 by radiotherapy.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 乳癌 outcome of 一醫學 with primary 年 invasive breast 接受 who received 治療 at a 的 center from 成果 to 2000.
Materials 方法 Methods: We 到 341 consecutive 作者 of primary 中心 invasive breast 腫瘤 who received 位可 in the 侵襲性 of radiation 病人 of the 療程 medical center 治療 1998 to 接受 A median 術 of 50 放射 in 25 照射 was delivered 附近 the chest 結 and/or regional 劑量 nodes of 為 who had 照射 mastectomy. For 乳房 who had 的 breast-conserving surgery, 人 tumor boost 則 of 15 到 20 Gy 使 dose: 65 達 70 Gy) 研究 given. Information 病歷 each patient 病人 collected by 資料 the medical 的 and clinical 結果 was compared.
Results: 病人 median follow-up 蹤 for the 自 patients was 至 years (range, 其中 months to 蹤 years). Among 位 142 received 乳房 surgery and 位 received mastectomy. 乳房 chemotherapy was 有 on 264 ( (77%) as 輔助性 neoadjuvant of 治療 treatment. The 的 rate at 為 years was 的 The disease-free 存活率 and local 五年 at 5 存活率 by stage 疾病 95.5% and 來 for stage 五年 93.2% and 疾病 for stage 疾病 62.4% and 分別 for stage 第二 58.8% and 第二 for stage 第三 and 43.7% 第三 75.4% for 全部 IIIB, respectively. 病人 total of 在 patients (7.1%) 到 locoregional recurrence, 復 occurred at 中數 months to ) years (median, 接受 years). But 手術合 the 142 治療 patients, only 至今 of them 局部 local recurrence ( now (median, 年 years).
Conclusion: Radiotherapy 乳癌 a very 治療 adjuvant treatment 非常 local control 局部 breast cancer 治療 Survival and 的 recurrence rates 和 comparable to 中心 series. Our 接受 also showed 手術合 very low 治療 of recurrence 來 patients receiving 目前 surgery followed 低 radiotherapy.
目的 Our objective 研究 this study 是 to review 未 results of 細胞 for patients ( undifferentiated carcinoma 病患 nasopharynx (UCN), 經過 terms of 的 control and 一 survival. We 其 evaluated different 在 factors for 控制 survival.
Materials and 方面 A retrospective 不同 was done 病人 283 patients 和 UNC patients 參數 at the 其預 of radiation 材料 Changhua Christian 方法 from 1984 到 1997. All 位 were classified 基督教 according to 腫瘤 WHO criteria 接受 nasopharyngeal tumor, 之 were then 追 according to 鼻咽癌 4th American 病例 Committee on 之標 (AJCC, 1992) 同時 system. Radiotherapy ( consisted of 系統 Gy to 分期 primary tumor 原發 optional boost 的 depending on 並依腫瘤 response. Regional 給予 were irradiated 之 a dose 局部 from 50.4Gy 到 70.2 Gy, 線劑 on the 其 of the 結 lymph nodes. 放射 cobalt-60 or 是 MV X-ray 六十 accelerator (Seimens 或 was used 加速器 radiotherapy. All 均 were then 追 regularly until 死亡 The Kaplan-Meier 使用 was used 來 determine actuarial 生存期 Logrank test 及 Cox regression 方法 were used 比 comparison and 決定 of prognostic 因子 Among the 研究 patients, a 五十 of 50 病患 were excluded 未 our study 因此 to incomplete 病患 The mean 這些 received by 所 patients were 均值 Gy (range: ( Gy – 超過 Gy). Their 僅有 5-year actuarial 生存 was only 十四 %, with 其 median survival ( 14 months. 主要 of 50 死 died. The 轉移 rate was 所 (37/50), with 病患 of them 其 from systemic 有 The remaining 產生 patients were 發 The male 控制率 female ratio 回歸值 2.4:1. Three 淋巴 28 patients 有意 local recurrence, 控制 a local 有 rate of 位 Cox regression 遠端 revealed that 肺臟 stage was 為 only significant 部位 for local 研究 Sixty (26%) 淋巴 developed distant 以及 mainly to 為 bone, the 遠端 and the 預 Analysis revealed 五年 N stage, 於 type and 二 were significant 四期 affecting distant 為 The 5-year 分析 for stage 分期 / II 以及 III, and 期為 patients were 病患 , 65.7% 因子 49.7%, respectively 治療 analysis revealed 未 N stage 鼻咽癌 significant prognostic ( for overall 病患 Radiotherapy remains 最終 treatment of 雖然 for undifferentiated 由 of the 很 (UCN). However, 遠端 to a 因此 rate of 治療 metastasis, chemotherapy 仍須 addition to 學藥物 should be 日後臨 direction for 的 clinical trial.
Purpose: 目的 objective in 研究 study is 是 review the 未 of radiotherapy 細胞 patients of ( carcinoma of 病患 (UCN), in 經過 of local 的 and overall 一 We also 其 different prognostic 在 for patient 控制 and Methods: 方面 retrospective review 不同 done on 病人 patients with 和 patients treated 參數 the department 其預 radiation oncology, 材料 Christian Hospital 方法 1984 to 到 All cases 位 classified histologically 基督教 to the 腫瘤 criteria for 接受 tumor, and 之 then re-staged 追 to the 鼻咽癌 American joint 病例 on Cancer 之標 1992) staging 同時 Radiotherapy (RT) ( of 70.2 系統 to the 分期 tumor with 原發 boost dose 的 on tumor 並依腫瘤 Regional lymphatics 給予 irradiated with 之 dose ranging 局部 50.4Gy to 到 Gy, based 線劑 the size 其 the involved 結 nodes. A 放射 or 6 是 X-ray linear 六十 (Seimens Mevatron) 或 used for 加速器 All patients 均 then followed-up 追 until death. 死亡 Kaplan-Meier method 使用 used to 來 actuarial survival. 生存期 test and 及 regression analysis 方法 used for 比 and determination 決定 prognostic factors.
Results: 因子 the 283 研究 a total 五十 50 patients 病患 excluded from 未 study due 因此 incomplete treatment. 病患 mean dose 這些 by these 所 were 27.09 均值 (range: 3 ( – 47.5 超過 Their overall 僅有 actuarial survival 生存 only 16.1 十四 with a 其 survival of ( months. Thirty-seven 主要 50 patients 死 The mortality 轉移 was 74% 所 with most 病患 them dying 其 systemic disease. 有 remaining 233 產生 were analyzed. 發 male to 控制率 ratio was 回歸值 Three were 淋巴 patients with 有意 recurrence, reflecting 控制 local control 有 of 87.9%. 位 regression analysis 遠端 that N 肺臟 was the 為 significant factor 部位 local control. 研究 (26%) patients 淋巴 distant metastasis, 以及 to the 為 the lung, 遠端 the liver. 預 revealed that 五年 stage, WHO 於 and stage 二 significant factors 四期 distant metastasis. 為 5-year survival 分析 stage I 分期 II , 以及 and IV 期為 were 80% 病患 65.7% and 因子 respectively .Our 治療 revealed that 未 stage were 鼻咽癌 prognostic factors ( overall survival.
Conclusion: 病患 remains the 最終 of choice 雖然 undifferentiated carcinoma 由 the nasopharyns 很 However, due 遠端 a high 因此 of distant 治療 chemotherapy in 仍須 to radiotherapy 學藥物 be the 日後臨 for future 的 trial.
目的 This study 目的 to analyze 第二期 preliminary survival 子宮 and treatment-related 接受 of definitive 治療 with prophylactic 預防性 irradiation and 淋巴 chemotherapy for 與 with International 化學 of Gynecology 初期 Obstetrics (FIGO) 與 IIB/IIIB cervical 副作用 and Methods: 與 June 1998 月 June 2001, 月間 patients with 或 stage IIB 頸 IIIB cervical 脈 with no 轉移 node metastasis 被 the para-aortic 研究 were included 治療 the study. 全程 were treated 放射 definitive pelvic 主動脈 prophylactic para-aortic 區 concomitant chemotherapy, 合 post-radiation chemotherapy 治療 treatments included 的 radiation to 與 para-aortic area 療程 45 Gy 的 25 fractions 放射 to the 有 pelvis with 主動 Gy in 淋巴 fractions, additional 放射 to the 的 with 9 體外 in 5 次 and the 宮頸 brachytherapy with 的 A doses 放射 22-30 Gy 次共計 4-5 fractions. 內 included 2 治療 of cisplatinum 包括 mg/m2 on 中 1 and 天共 29 during 以及 , and 後 cycles of 月 60-80 mg/m2 連續 5-fluorouracil 600-800 的 for 5 結束 at 1 返回 2 months 蹤 completion of 存活 Patients were 以 on a 治療 basis. The 以 outcome was 中位數 by Kaplan-Meier 時 and the 個 side effects 所有 evaluated by 完成 criteria. The 放 follow-up interval 放射 15 months. 的 All patients 化學 the planned 病人 and the 了 2 cycles 後 chemotherapy during 化學 Sixteen patients 位 underwent 2 化學 of the 上 chemotherapy, while 位 of them 蹤 modification of 現 regimens. One 發 had local 控制率 with the 一位 local control 肺部 of 83%. 病人 of the 旁 patients had 發 recurrence, but 均 patient developed 年 metastasis. All 所有 were alive 沒 the 2-year 度 rate was 副作用 Most treatment-related 治療 effects were 為腸 and hematological 血液 No patient 反應 grade IV 出現 toxicity. For 胃道 toxicity, there 病人 four patient(20%) 度 grade III 副作用 For hematological 病人 there were 度 patients (25%) 長 grade III 發症 All but 因為 patients had 而 late toxicities 治療 than or 或 to grade 全程 No patient 中 the interruption 主動脈 radiation therapy 區 to the 及合 adverse effects. 治療 Definitive radiotherapy 及 prophylactic para-aortic 子 and concur-rent 是 are safe 可忍受 well tolerated 方式 patients with 成果 stage IIB-IIIB 接受 carcinoma. The 研究 survival results 時間 acceptable. Long-term 蹤 is needed 這種 evaluate the 組合 effects and 的 with this 和 treatment combination.
Purpose: 目的 study was 目的 analyze the 第二期 survival outcomes 子宮 treatment-related toxicities 接受 definitive radiotherapy 治療 prophylactic para-aortic 預防性 and concurrent 淋巴 for patients 與 International Federation 化學 Gynecology and 初期 (FIGO) stage 與 cervical carcinoma.
Materials 副作用 Methods: From 與 1998 to 月 2001, 20 月間 with FIGO 或 IIB or 頸 cervical carcinoma 脈 no lymph 轉移 metastasis to 被 para-aortic area 研究 included in 治療 study. Patients 全程 treated with 放射 pelvic and 主動脈 para-aortic radiotherapy, 區 chemotherapy, and 合 chemotherapy Radiation 治療 included external 的 to the 與 area with 療程 Gy in 的 fractions and 放射 the whole 有 with 50.4 主動 in 28 淋巴 additional boost 放射 the parametrium 的 9 Gy 體外 5 fractions, 次 the intracavitary 宮頸 with point 的 doses of 放射 Gy in 次共計 fractions. Chemotherapy 內 2 cycles 治療 cisplatinum 60-80 包括 on day 中 and day 天共 during radiotherapy 以及 and 2 後 of cisplatinum 月 mg/m2 and 連續 600-800 mg/m2/day 的 5 days, 結束 1 and 返回 months after 蹤 of radiotherapy. 存活 were followed 以 a regular 治療 The survival 以 was calculated 中位數 Kaplan-Meier method, 時 the treatment-related 個 effects were 所有 by RTOG 完成 The median 放 interval was 放射 months. 
Results: 的 patients completed 化學 planned radiotherapy 病人 the planned 了 cycles of 後 during radiotherapy. 化學 patients (80%) 位 2 cycles 化學 the post-radiation 上 while 4 位 them had 蹤 of chemotherapy 現 One patient 發 local recurrence, 控制率 the 2-year 一位 control rate 肺部 83%. None 病人 the 20 旁 had para-aortic 發 but one 均 developed lung 年 All patients 所有 alive and 沒 2-year survival 度 was 100%. 副作用 treatment-related side 治療 were gastrointestinal 為腸 hematological reactions. 血液 patient had 反應 IV acute 出現 For gastrointestinal 胃道 there were 病人 patient(20%) with 度 III reaction. 副作用 hematological toxicity, 病人 were five 度 (25%) with 長 III reaction. 發症 but 2 因為 had the 而 toxicities less 治療 or equal 或 grade II. 全程 patient had 中 interruption of 主動脈 therapy due 區 the treatment-related 及合 effects. 
Conclusion: 治療 radiotherapy with 及 para-aortic irradiation 子 concur-rent chemotherapy 是 safe and 可忍受 tolerated for 方式 with FIGO 成果 IIB-IIIB cervical 接受 The preliminary 研究 results were 時間 Long-term follow-up 蹤 needed to 這種 the side 組合 and outcome 的 this intensive 和 combination.
目的 The purpose 研究 this study 在 to investigate 乳癌 failure patterns 術 chest wall 放射 after postmastectomy 其 (RT) in 局部 patients with 再 advanced breast 線 and the 的 of re-irradiaton.
Materials 與 Methods: From 從 1978 to 至 1996, 17 月 with pathology 病理切片 recurrent breast 為 were included 發 this study. 病患 recurrent chest 局部 was treated 治療 4 or 使用 MV photon 伏特 tangential field 或 or 9 電子 electron beam 治療 anterior or 劑量 portal, in 量 daily dose 至 2 Gy, 為 days per 結果 Total dose 個 from 20 發生 60 Gy 以肺 the average 最常見 of 48 發 The median 為 time from 月 wall recurrence 個 16 mouths, 平均 from 3 個 to 3.5 胸壁 There was 發生 of recurrence 術 within 2 後 after postmastectomy 佔 and 71% 發 site occurred 後 the previous 的 field. Fourteen 結論 (82%) developed 乳癌 metastases. Lung 後 the most 很 site.
Conclusion: Re-irradiation 遠處 the chest 放射 played only 僅有 palliative role. 的 systemic management 因此 be investigated 轉移 recommended due 全身性 high incidence 更進 distant metastases.
Purpose: 目的 purpose of 研究 study was 在 investigate the 乳癌 patterns of 術 wall recurrence 放射 postmastectomy radiotherapy 其 in the 局部 with locally 再 breast cancer 線 the outcome 的 re-irradiaton.
Materials and 與 From January 從 to December 至 17 patients 月 pathology confirmed 病理切片 breast cancer 為 included in 發 study. The 病患 chest wall 局部 treated with 治療 or 6 使用 photon through 伏特 field technique 或 9 MeV 電子 beam through 治療 or oblique 劑量 in a 量 dose of 至 Gy, 5 為 per week. 結果 dose ranged 個 20 to 發生 Gy with 以肺 average dose 最常見 48 Gy.
Results: 發 median survival 為 from chest 月 recurrence was 個 mouths, ranged 平均 3 months 個 3.5 years. 胸壁 was 90% 發生 recurrence occurred 術 2 years 後 postmastectomy irradiation, 佔 71% recurrent 發 occurred in 後 previous RT 的 Fourteen patients 結論 developed distant 乳癌 Lung was 後 most common 很 Re-irradiation to 遠處 chest wall 放射 only a 僅有 role. Further 的 management should 因此 investigated and 轉移 due to 全身性 incidence of 更進 metastases.
目的 To evaluate 罕見 treatment results 型態 relapse patterns 放射 nasopharyngeal carcinomas 及 with unusual 發型態 features.
Materials and 方法 From Dec 共有 to April 病理 nine cases 鼻咽癌 carcinoma occur-ring 病患 the nasopharynx, 長 were characterized 放射 unusual histological 接受 underwent radiotherapy 其 the Department 組織 Radiation Oncology, 為腺樣 Gung Memorial 上皮 The histological ) for these 四位 were adenoid 不良 carcinoma (n= ) poorly differentiated 病人 (n= 3), 類 mucoepider-moid carcinoma 癌 2). This 佔 consisted of 年齡 females and 至 males, with 女性 median age 分佔 41 years 兩位 15 to 病人 Two patients 腺樣 mucoepidermoid carcinoma 上皮 one with 病人 adenoid cystic 治療 underwent transpalate 手術 of the ) before irradiation. 病人 patients were 放射 with definite 的 with total 為 to the 劑量 ranging from ) to 7280 五年 (median, 7080).
Results: 的 five and 分別 overall survival 中位 derived using 為 Kaplan-Meier method, 六位 44.4% and ) respectively. Median 發 was 2.73 後 Local recurrence 復 for six 時間 the patients 為 The duration 月 local recurrence 為 from 12 月 113 months, 數為 a median 月 33 months. 二位 patients developed 發生 metastasis to 分別轉 or liver.
Conclusion: 及 carcinomas with 罕見 histological features 型態 rare. As 鼻咽癌 result, the 床上 number of 故 cases diagnosed 限制 the study 本 limited the 代表性 power of 觀察到 study. Relatively 有 stage distribution 較 a greater 的 of local 以及 after definite 後 were observed, 發 these features 或 accounting for 解釋 poor survival 病理 for NPC 鼻咽癌 which are 一般 by unusual 存活率 features.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 罕見 results and 型態 patterns for 放射 carcinomas (NPCs) 及 unusual histological 發型態 and Methods: 方法 Dec 1983 共有 April 1997, 病理 cases of 鼻咽癌 occur-ring in 病患 nasopharynx, which 長 characterized by 放射 histological presentations, 接受 radiotherapy at 其 Department of 組織 Oncology, Chang 為腺樣 Memorial Hospital-Linkou. 上皮 histological diagnoses ) these patients 四位 adenoid cystic 不良 (n= 4), ) differentiated adenocarcinoma 病人 3), and 類 carcinoma (n= 癌 This group 佔 of two 年齡 and seven 至 with a 女性 age of 分佔 years (range, 兩位 to 72). 病人 patients with 腺樣 carcinoma and 上皮 with the 病人 cystic variant 治療 transpalate excision 手術 the tumor ) irradiation. All 病人 were treated 放射 definite irradiation, 的 total dose 為 the nasopharynx 劑量 from 6480 ) 7280 cGy 五年 7080).
Results: The 的 and ten-year 分別 survival rates, 中位 using the 為 method, were 六位 and 29.6%, ) Median survival 發 2.73 years. 後 recurrence occurred 復 six of 時間 patients (66%). 為 duration to 月 recurrence varied 為 12 to 月 months, with 數為 median of 月 months. Two 二位 developed distant 發生 to lung 分別轉 liver.
Conclusion: Nasopharyngeal 及 with unusual 罕見 features are 型態 As a 鼻咽癌 the small 床上 of such 故 diagnosed during 限制 study period 本 the statistical 代表性 of this 觀察到 Relatively advanced 有 distribution and 較 greater proportion 的 local relapse 以及 definite radiotherapy 後 observed, with 發 features probably 或 for the 解釋 survival rate 病理 NPC cases 鼻咽癌 are characterized 一般 unusual histological 存活率
目的 To compare 分期 radiotherapy (IMRT) 比較 plans with 治療 treatment plans 治療 different stage 治療 nasopharyngeal carcinoma. 差異 and Methods: 我們 used 3 分期 of different 病人 stage of 除 cancer using 調控 techniques, as ) as three-dimensional 使用 radiotherapy technique 治療 and traditional 傳統 fields technique. 野技術 use different 的 of techniques 運用 initial and 範圍 fields. These 治療 were compared 在 respect to 曲線 conformality, dose-volume 體積 (DVH) and 條圖 to the 及劑 normal tissue 敏感 The planned 的 distributions were 強度 conformal to 治療 rumor target 其劑 by IMRT 分布 T1 and 近 tumor but 了 in T4 保護 with extending 等 eye balls 目的 To achieve 治療 parotid and 採用 organs preservation 順形 IMRT should 強度 done from 技術 beginning of 更 The IMRT 劑量 may deliver 器官 radiation dose 高 eye balls 接近 the lesion 所給予 the ethmoid 劑量 nearing the 分 level. The 影響 dosage and 組織 will be 功能 after the 的 of the 凹面 structure.
Conclusion: The 腫瘤 will gain 順形 benefit of 對 sparing in 增加 stage of 處 and the 使用 shape tumor. 順形 the IMRT 採共面 co-planar treatment 治療 may cause 治療 harm to 部位 structures for 上 lesion at ) central such 眼球 upper ethmoid sinus area.
Purpose: 目的 compare intensity-modulated 分期 (IMRT) treatment 比較 with conventional 治療 plans for 治療 stage of 治療 carcinoma. 
Materials 差異 Methods: We 我們 3 cases 分期 different T 病人 of nasopharyngeal 除 using IMRT 調控 as well ) three-dimensional conformal 使用 technique (3D-CRT), 治療 traditional bil-opposing 傳統 technique. We 野技術 different combinations 的 techniques in 運用 and boost 範圍 These plans 治療 compared with 在 to dose 曲線 dose-volume histogram 體積 and dose 條圖 the sensitive 及劑 tissue structures.
Results: 敏感 planned dose 的 were more 強度 to the 治療 target volume 其劑 IMRT in 分布 and T3 近 but not 了 T4 lesion 保護 extending to 等 balls level. 目的 achieve the 治療 and ear 採用 preservation purpose, 順形 should be 強度 from the 技術 of radiotherapy. 更 IMRT technique 劑量 deliver more 器官 dose to 高 balls for 接近 lesion over 所給予 ethmoid sinus 劑量 the orbit 分 The radiation 影響 and conformality 組織 be lost 功能 the limitation 的 the eye 凹面 The IMRT 腫瘤 gain the 順形 of parotid 對 in different 增加 of tumor 處 the concave 使用 tumor. However, 順形 IMRT with 採共面 treatment planning 治療 cause some 治療 to eye 部位 for the 上 at the ) such as 眼球 ethmoid sinus area.
目的 This study 卡羅 the Percent 模擬 Dose (PDD) 組織 simulation at 百分 region by ( Carlo method 曲線 the accurately 往後準 skin dose 評估 the future.
Materials 參考 Methods: Simulation 與 this study 本 carried out 為 the OMEGA/BEAM 模擬 After modeling 模式化 Siemens PRIMUS 後 accelerator, phase 模擬並 data is 為 at SSD= 收集 cm for 粒子 dose distribution 該 in a 群作 phantom. Dose 半徑 simulation is 假體 out for 劑量 MV and 射源 MV, 10 研究 10、20 × 與 and 30 × cm2 fields × a water 照野 The phantom 分別 in 30 假體 in radius 選取 10 cm 與 thickness. The 區域 selected for × calculation of 與 × 10、20 野中 20 and 計算區域 ×30 cm2 表面 are 1.0, 共 and 3.0 × in radius, ) Total twenty 體積元 of thickness 並在 (50μm) from 半徑 surface and 上述 voxel of 面積 0.1cm at 但 were selected 的 dose calculation. 模擬 dose ratios 後 voxels at 處之劑 region to 比值 at Dmax 分 the PDD 圖 at surface 討論 and Discussion: 模擬 relative error 百分 all voxels 大都 within 1% 以內 the exception 部份 some voxels 的 2% in 在 × 30 所得 field. The 各水 curves at 附近 region were 經 with 4th 多 polynomial function. 擬合 x2 value 在 each fitting 處 better than ) The PDD 之 at water × ( X=0) 的 6 MV, 為 × 10、20 之 20 and 為 × 30 的 fields are 於 ± 0.17%、23.07 模擬 0.35% and 之水 ± 0.52%, 值 For 15 作為 the values 計畫 8.71± 0.06%、18.77 模式化 0.14% and 合曲線 ± 0.32%, 之值 The PDD ) at water 本 can be 僅對 as reference 開放式 modeling of 照野作 planning system. 亦 study only 對 out the 楔型 for 6 ( 15 MV 動態 fields. More 濾器 on surface ) of physical 水表 and dynamic 佈 fields are 模擬 to widen 增加 clinical application.
Purpose: 目的 study performed 卡羅 Percent Depth 模擬 (PDD) curve 組織 at surface 百分 by Monte ( method for 曲線 accurately evaluating 往後準 dose in 評估 future.
Materials and 參考 Simulation in 與 study is 本 out by 為 OMEGA/BEAM code. 模擬 modeling the 模式化 PRIMUS linear 後 phase space 模擬並 is collected 為 SSD= 100 收集 for following 粒子 distribution simulation 該 a water 群作 Dose distribution 半徑 is carried 假體 for 6 劑量 and 15 射源 10 × 研究 × 20 與 30 ×30 × fields in × water phantom. 照野 phantom size 分別 30 cm 假體 radius and 選取 cm in 與 The areas 區域 for dose × of 10 與 10、20 × 野中 and 30 計算區域 cm2 fields 表面 1.0, 2.0 共 3.0 cm × radius, respectively. ) twenty voxels 體積元 thickness 0.05mm 並在 from water 半徑 and 1 上述 of thickness 面積 at Dmax 但 selected for 的 calculation. The 模擬 ratios of 後 at surface 處之劑 to voxel 比值 Dmax form 分 PDD curve 圖 surface region.
Result 討論 Discussion: The 模擬 error of 百分 voxels is 大都 1% with 以內 exception of 部份 voxels within 的 in 30 在 30 cm2 所得 The PDD 各水 at surface 附近 were fit 經 4th order 多 function. The 擬合 value of 在 fitting is 處 than 0.997. ) PDD value 之 water surface × X=0) for 的 MV, 10 為 10、20 × 之 and 30 為 30 cm2 的 are 13.67 於 0.17%、23.07 ± 模擬 and 29.75 之水 0.52%, respectively. 值 15 MV, 作為 values are 計畫 0.06%、18.77 ± 模式化 and 27.06 合曲線 0.32%, respectively.
Conclusion: 之值 PDD value ) water surface 本 be taken 僅對 reference for 開放式 of treatment 照野作 system. This 亦 only carried 對 the simulation 楔型 6 and ( MV open 動態 More efforts 濾器 surface PDD ) physical wedge 水表 dynamic wedge 佈 are needed 模擬 widen the 增加 application.
二名 cases of 下肢 limb soft 肉瘤 sarcoma, one 於 fibrous histiocytoma 總 one liposarcoma, 手術 treated by 組織間 and a 此 high dose 病人 of interstitial 時 with and 為 external beam 患者 in Taichung 病患 General Hospital. 強烈 cases were 保留 stage and 患肢 grade in 本院 at presentation 其 had a 採肢體 concern for 即實 preservation. Conservative 大範圍 treatments were 腫瘤 by wide 於 and marginal 埋 respectively. The 接 catheters were 管子 with 1-cm 公分 in a 排列 array intra-operatively. 挖取 dose rate 及其 was planned 組織 Plato Brachytherapy 圖近 System and 治療 started 4 系統 after the 治療 by the 在手 of the 後 selection after 患行 using iridum-192 近接 the irradiation 治療 The total 治療 were 2880cGy 總劑 2800 cGy 分別 and were 並以 in 8 兩次 7 fractions 八次 given to 一人 case but 體外 withheld in 另一人 second case 糖尿病 to delayed 治療 healing after 延遲 There were 癒 significant wound 沒 in the 照體 case. There 照射 also no 病患 fracture or 治療 nerve damage 後 either case 其 muscle fibrosis 下來 after the 患肢 Both of 有 patients were 之滿 with the 除 of the 有 limbs during 肌肉 follow up 並無 year later. 發症 local recurrence 或 distant metastasis 復 seen at 由此 For advanced 病患 limbs soft 治療 sarcoma, wide 保留 plus interstitial 患者 may be 下肢 alternative management 患者 the preservation 疾病 the limbs. 信心 we had 患者 good initial 生活 control of 雖然 two cases 改善 it does 於 indicate there 之軟 be a 的 prognosis later 控制率 However it 這並 improve the 可 quality of 患者 and their 期 in facing 此二例 disease. Further 之長 follow-up is 追 and hopefully 為 will be 並 long-term survival 有 the future.
Two 二名 of lower 下肢 soft tissue 肉瘤 one malignant 於 histiocytoma and 總 liposarcoma, were 手術 by surgery 組織間 a postoperative 此 dose rate 病人 interstitial brachytherapy 時 and without 為 beam irradiation 患者 Taichung Veteran 病患 Hospital. Both 強烈 were advanced 保留 and high 患肢 in histology 本院 presentation and 其 a high 採肢體 for leg 即實 Conservative surgical 大範圍 were performed 腫瘤 wide excision 於 marginal excision, 埋 The interstitial 接 were implanted 管子 1-cm spacing 公分 a parallel 排列 intra-operatively. High 挖取 rate brachytherapy 及其 planned by 組織 Brachytherapy Planning 圖近 and was 治療 4 days 系統 the operation 治療 the application 在手 the micro 後 after loader 患行 iridum-192 as 近接 irradiation source. 治療 total doses 治療 2880cGy and 總劑 cGy respectively 分別 were applied 並以 8 and 兩次 fractions was 八次 to one 一人 but was 體外 in the 另一人 case due 糖尿病 delayed wound 治療 after brachytherapy. 延遲 were on 癒 wound complications 沒 the first 照體 There was 照射 no bone 病患 or peripheral 治療 damage in 後 case except 其 fibrosis occurred 下來 the irradiation. 患肢 of the 有 were satisfied 之滿 the function 除 the preserved 有 during a 肌肉 up one 並無 later. No 發症 recurrence or 或 metastasis was 復 at present. 由此 advanced lower 病患 soft tissue 治療 wide excision 保留 interstitial brachytherapy 患者 be an 下肢 management for 患者 preservation of 疾病 limbs. Though 信心 had a 患者 initial local 生活 of these 雖然 cases but 改善 does not 於 there will 之軟 a good 的 later on. 控制率 it did 這並 the patient’s 可 of life 患者 their self-con-fidence 期 facing the 此二例 Further long-term 之長 is necessary 追 hopefully there 為 be good 並 survival in 有 future.
目的 To generate 一種 modified 3-D 的 planning that 放射 be delivered 不僅 and safely, 執行 treat the 照射 adequately in 可 advanced nasopharyngeal 嚴重 and Methods: 的 stage 14 劑量 patients without 方法 metastasis, especially 選擇 a huge 靠近 approaching or 而 to the 的 stem, were 為 for this 計劃 planning under 標 intent. The 的 planning system 藉由 used to 系統 these 3-D 由 plans. The 之 were evaluated 執行 respect to 的 treatment time 以 ease of 的 delivery, achievement 要求 dose requirement 佈 tumor with 成度 tissue sparing, 及 histograms of 之 target volume 之比較 critical normal 生物 potential radiobiological 效果 and toxicity 學 concurrent chemotherapy. 毒性 treatment responses 其 defined by 之 serial follow-up 乃 and Tc-99mnuclear 治療 Each time 和 2-4 portals 之 needed to 結果 a tumoricidal 計劃 (200 cGyonce 需 day to 照野 cGy, or 最終 cGy twice 腫瘤 day to 而 cGy) to 所 of the 劑量 tumor target 在 while still 內 the doses 相似 the adjacent 結果 normal structures 正常 safety limits. 則 DVH of 之 is similar 腫瘤 that of 愈大之區 but the 之 of spinal 而 and mandible 內 similar to ) of 3DCRT. 合 highest dose 學 centered to 仍 heavy tumor 而 area. There 重大 no any 治療 spot in 的 tissue. This 月 was well 核磁共振 and showed 醫學 moderate toxicity, 影像 with concurrent 完全 The complete 此 was confirmed 式 serial MRI 空間 Tc.99m nuclear 是 after treatment.
Conclusion: 及 modified 3-D 的 was effective, 有效 and safe 局部 treating locally 的 nasopharyngeal carcinoma. 但 follow-up and 期 patients are 觀 to establish 立臨 true clinical 真正
Purpose: 目的 generate a 一種 3-D radiotherapy 的 that can 放射 delivered easily 不僅 safely, and 執行 the targets 照射 in locally 可 nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Materials 嚴重 Methods: The 的 14 NPC 劑量 without distant 方法 especially with 選擇 huge tumor 靠近 or close 而 the brain 的 were selected 為 this Treatment 計劃 under curative 標 The CMS.FOCUS 的 system was 藉由 to generate 系統 3-D radiotherapy 由 The plans 之 evaluated with 執行 to daily 的 time and 以 of treatment 的 achievement of 要求 requirement to 佈 with normal 成度 sparing, dose-volume 及 of gross 之 volume and 之比較 normal structures, 生物 radiobiological effects 效果 toxicity of 學 chemotherapy. The 毒性 responses were 其 by the 之 follow-up MRI 乃 Tc-99mnuclear scans.
Results: 治療 time only 和 portals were 之 to deliver 結果 tumoricidal dose 計劃 cGyonce a 需 to 7000 照野 or 120 最終 twice a 腫瘤 to 7440 而 to 100% 所 the primary 劑量 target volume 在 still keeping 內 doses of 相似 adjacent critical 結果 structures within 正常 limits. The 則 of GTV 之 similar to 腫瘤 of IMRT 愈大之區 the DVHs 之 spinal cord 而 mandible are 內 to those ) 3DCRT. The 合 dose was 學 to the 仍 tumor burden 而 There was 重大 any hot 治療 in normal 的 This treatment 月 well tolerated 核磁共振 showed only 醫學 toxicity, even 影像 concurrent chemotherapy. 完全 complete response 此 confirmed by 式 MRI and 空間 nuclear scans 是 treatment.
Conclusion: This 及 3-D radiotherapy 的 effective, efficient, 有效 safe in 局部 locally advanced 的 carcinoma. Longer 但 and more 期 are needed 觀 establish the 立臨 clinical advantage.
: This study : a retrospective : to evaluate ( impact of ( stereotactic radiotherapy ) on malignant ) and Methods: . June 1996 . May 1998, : patients with : proven WHO ( III or ( glioma (17 ( astrocytoma, 20 ) multiforme) were ) at Taipei . University hospital . FSRT. External ( radiotherapy (EBRT) ( a median ) of 46 ) which is . by stereotactic . A frameless . stereotactic radiotherapy . used to . the tumor ( using daily ( of 2.0 ) Gy for ) to 12 . Non-coplanar arcs . arcs, median . arcs) with . to 2 . were mostly . Survival curves . calculated using : Kaplan-Meier method. : factors and . treatment variables . tested by . and multivariate . Overall median ( was 22 ( One year ) 2-year survival ) were 60% ( 30% respectively. ( up imaging ( showed tumor ) greater than ) in 6 ( (16%), reduction ( than 50% ) unchanged in ) patients (38%) . progression in . of the ' patients (46%). ' analysis of ( prognostic factors, ( age (＜50 ( and≧50 years), ＜ of surgical ＜ and tumor ≧ (＜20 ml) ≧ correlated with ) in univariate ) (p＜0.05). Tumor ( and extent ( surgical resection ＜ significant in ＜ analysis. The ＜ status remained ) for all ) during FSRT ( only 5 ( (13%) suffered ＜ treatment related ＜ toxicity with ) medication control.
Conclusion: ) stereotactic radiotherapy . a safe . feasible technique . the primary . of malignant . Although the ( survival and ( year survival ) encouraging, we ) not observe . significant dose-effect . on overall : progression-free survival. : series study . long term . is indicated.
Purpose: : study is : retrospective analysis : evaluate the ( of fractionated ( radiotherapy (FSRT) ) malignant glioma.
Material ) Methods: Between . 1996 and . 1998, 37 : with histology-cally : WHO grade ( or IV ( (17 Anaplastic ( 20 Glioblastoma ) were treated ) Taipei Medical . hospital with . External beam ( (EBRT) delivered ( median dose ) 46 Gy ) is followed . stereotactic radiotherapy. . frameless fractionated . radiotherapy was . to boost . tumor bed, ( daily fraction ( 2.0 -3.0 ) for 5 ) 12 fractions. . arcs (4-8 . median 4 . with 1 . 2 isocenters . mostly used. . curves were . using the : method. Prognostic : and different . variables were . by univariate . multivariate analysis.
Results: . median survival ( 22 months. ( year and ) survival rate ) 60% and ( respectively. Follow ( imaging study ( tumor reduction ) than 50% ) 6 patients ( reduction less ( 50% or ) in 14 ) (38%) and . in 17 . the 37 ' (46%). On ' of different ( factors, patient's ( (＜50 years ( years), extent ＜ surgical resection, ＜ tumor volume ≧ ml) were ≧ with survival ) univariate analysis ) Tumor volume ( extent of ( resection remained ＜ in multivariate ＜ The performance ＜ remained stable ) all patients ) FSRT and ( 5 patients ( suffered from ＜ related acute ＜ with good ) control.
Conclusion: Fractionated ) radiotherapy provides . safe and . technique in . primary treatment . malignant gliomas. . the overall ( and 1 ( survival is ) we did ) observe a . dose-effect relationship . overall and : survival. Large : study with . term fallow-up . indicated.
目的 evaluate and 並討論 the therapeutic 放射 and technique 之 conjunctival lymphoma. 技術 and Methods: 與 retrospective study 回溯 to review 研究 10 patients 自 conjunctival lymphoma 至 at National 在 University Hospital 醫院 1988 to 治療 There were 結膜 men and 其中 women. The 男性 of age 年齡 32 - 歲 years old, 平均 59.1 years 為 Most of 病患 patients presented 結膜 conjunctival mass, 發紅及 eyes and 感為 body sensation. 病患 conjunctival lesions 結膜 all patients 以 treated with 前方 single anterior 整個 which covered 組織 entire conjunctiva, 電子 3 MeV 由 10 MeV 等 beam. Total 治療 of 30 到 to 50 至 was delivered 治療 15 to 間 fractions over 至 to 33 所有 In all 使用 a specially 設計 lead shield 模塊 used to 保護 the lens. 追 follow-up time 時 from 24 至 to 124 月 All patients 病患 doing well 追 no sign 間 active localized 均 distant disease 或 the closing 病灶 of the 治療 Moreover, the 併 including decreased 視力 acuity, cataract 白內障 photophobia, were 均屬 Lymphoma clinically 結論 to conjunctiva 量 the initial 的 can be 可 by radiation 用 with a 於 of 30 的 to 40 藉由 The complications 的 radiation therapy 及 be minimized 保護 sophisticated treatment 線 and well 的 of the 降低 radiosensitive lens.
Purpose:To 目的 and discuss 並討論 therapeutic results 放射 technique of 之 lymphoma. 
Materials 技術 Methods: This 與 study was 回溯 review the 研究 patients with 自 lymphoma treated 至 National Taiwan 在 Hospital from 醫院 to 1996. 治療 were 8 結膜 and 2 其中 The range 男性 age was 年齡 - 75 歲 old, mean: 平均 years old. 為 of the 病患 presented with 結膜 mass, reddish 發紅及 and forelgn 感為 sensation. The 病患 lesions in 結膜 patients were 以 with a 前方 anterior field 整個 covered the 組織 conjunctiva, using 電子 MeV to 由 MeV electron 等 Total dose 治療 30 Gy 到 50 Gy 至 delivered in 治療 to 25 間 over 23 至 33 days. 所有 all cases, 使用 specially designed 設計 shield was 模塊 to protect 保護 lens. The 追 time ranged 時 24 months 至 124 months.
Results: 月 patients were 病患 well with 追 sign of 間 localized or 均 disease till 或 closing date 病灶 the study. 治療 the complications, 併 decreased visual 視力 cataract and 白內障 were minimal.
Conclusion: 均屬 clinically localized 結論 conjunctiva as 量 initial presentation 的 be cured 可 radiation therapy 用 a dosage 於 30 Gy 的 40 Gy. 藉由 complications of 的 therapy can 及 minimized with 保護 treatment technique 線 well protection 的 the highly 降低 lens.
目的 The objective 影像 this research 電腦 to integrate ) image processing ) computer aided ) (CAD), and 發展 mathematical model 電腦 develop a 影像 real-world surface 成形 imaging system 經由 medical applications. 與 and Methods: 結合 this study, 過程 photogrammetry technique 及劑 used to 需求 target objects. 本 image pairs 數位 appropriate overlap 測目 used to 之 stereo image 成立 With properly 配合 photographic platform 攝影 precisely measured 測之 points, stereo 影像 can be 本次 from digital 包括 and coordinates 三角 target objects 等 be measured.
Results: 與 results indicate 差介 digital photogrammetry 影像 be used 否關 acquiring information 之 target objects.
Conclusion: 擷取 properly designed 應 equipment and 鏡頭 and appropriate 攝影 and hardware 攝影 the technique 均 meet the 以 of various 攝影 applications.
Purpose: 目的 objective of 影像 research is 電腦 integrate digital ) processing techniques, ) aided design ) and 3-dimension 發展 model to 電腦 a 3-D 影像 surface model 成形 system for 經由 applications. 
Materials 與 Methods: In 結合 study, digital 過程 technique was 及劑 to measure 需求 objects. Digital 本 pairs with 數位 overlap were 測目 to form 之 image pairs. 成立 properly designed 配合 platform and 攝影 measured control 測之 stereo models 影像 be built 本次 digital images 包括 coordinates of 三角 objects can 等 measured.
Results: The 與 indicate that 差介 photogrammetry can 影像 used in 否關 information about 之 objects.
Conclusion: With 擷取 designed photographic 應 and procedure, 鏡頭 appropriate software 攝影 hardware facilities, 攝影 technique can 均 the requirements 以 various medical 攝影
: To determine : variability of ( setup errors ( three-dimensional conformal ) (3D-CRT) for . cancer treatment . immobilization or : different immobilization : and Methods . Forty-eight prostate . patients treated . 3D-CRT were : evaluated. They ( treated by ( same physician, ) and  ) Five groups ; patients and ( were compared: ( supine position ) immobilization; (B) ; position without ; but with ( (C) prone ( with belly-board ) cast immobilization; ; supine position ; alpha cradle ( waist to ) knee immobilization; ) supine position ; stereotactic body ; immobilization. Serial ( films were ) and compared ) simulation films. . deviation in . axis and . angle were . Group A . the least : in X-axis ; anterior-posterior view ; p = ) group B ; the least ; in Z-axis ( anterior-posterior view ( p = ; group 0 ) the least ) in rotation ; of anterior-posterior ; (AP-Ang.; p ( 0.067); group . has the . deviation in ; angle of ) view (Lat-Ang. ) p = ; There is ; significant difference ( deviation both . each directions . angles according ; body habitus ) normal or ) Heavier weight . less AP-Z . Lat-Z deviation . = 0.011 ( p = ( the deviation ) Lat-Z has ; correlation with ; (p ＜ ( deviation AP-X ( positive correlation ＜ deviation Lat-Z ) Lat-Ang. (p ) 0.037 and . = 0.05 ( For patients ( thickness of ) circumference (PC-AP) ) 19.0 cm . the least ( in AP-Z ( = 0.034), ) (p = ＜ in group ＜ and the ( AP-Ang. (p ( 0.031) in ) D; for . with width . pelvic circumference ( ＜ 35.0 ( have the ) deviation in . (p = . in group ( Lat-Z in ) C; for ) with body ; ＜ 67.5 ; have the ( deviation in ) (p = ) in group ＜ 
Conclusion: Group ( has better ( error in ) and Lat-Z ) statistics significant ; ＜ 0.05), ＜ B has ＜ setup error ( AP-Z; group ) and E ) better setup . in rotation . group C : less setup ( in Lat-Y, ( without statistical ＜ We conclude ) position without ) fixation technique ; to be ; suitable method ; treating patients . localized prostate . either in . or conveniency.
Purpose: : determine the : of patient ( errors during ( conformal radiotherapy ) for prostate . treatment without . or with : immobilization devices.
Materials : Methods : . prostate cancer . treated with . were prospective : They were ( by the ( physician, technician )  machine. ) groups of ; and technique ( compared: (A) ( position without ) (B) prone ; without immobilization, ; with belly-board; ( prone position ( belly-board and ) immobilization; (D) ; position with ; cradle from ( to below ) immobilization; (E) ) position with ; body frame ; Serial portal ( were recorded ) compared with ) films. The . in each . and rotation . were compared.
Results: . A has . least deviation : X-axis of ; view CAP-X; ; = 0.044); ) B has ; least deviation ; Z-axis of ( view (AP-Z; ( = 0.065); ; 0 has ) least deviation ) rotation angle ; anterior-posterior view ; p = ( group E . the least . in rotation ; of lateral ) (Lat-Ang. ; ) = 0.078). ; is no ; difference in ( both in . directions and . according to ; habitus as ) or obese. ) weight has . AP-Z and . deviation (p . 0.011 and ( = 0.108); ( deviation of ) has positive ; with AP-Z ; ＜ 0.001), ( AP-X has ( correlation with ＜ Lat-Z and ) (p = ) and p . 0.05 ). ( patients with ( of pelvic ) (PC-AP) ＜ ) cm have . least deviation ( AP-Z (p ( 0.034), Lat-Ang. ) = 0.034) ＜ group B ＜ the least ( (p = ( in group ) for patients . width of . circumference (PC-Lat) ( 35.0 cm ( the least ) in AP-X . = 0.013) . group A, ( in group ) for patients ) body weight ; 67.5 kg ; the least ( in AP-X ) = 0.039) ) group A. ＜ Group A ( better setup ( in AP-X ) Lat-Z with ) significant (p ; 0.05), group ＜ has better ＜ error in ( group D ) E have ) setup error . rotation angle; . C has : setup error ( Lat-Y, but ( statistical significance. ＜ conclude supine ) without immobilization ) technique seems ; be a ; method for ; patients with . prostate cancer . in accuracy . conveniency.
目的 Measuring the 氣泡 contamination of 器量 MV X-ray 加速器 various electrons 與 from Siemens 電子 linear accelerator 子 using bubble 材料 
Materials and 方法 Various bubble 敏度 are arranged 氣泡 the linac 分別 with the 於 of 1m 室 the same 平面 of isocenter 位置 measure the 中心 equivalent distribution 不同 the treatment 光子 The measurements 與 perform for 與 MV x-rays × 40×40 cm2 錐 0×0 cm2 治療 and for 內 18, and 等效 MeV electrons 分 25×25 cm2 結果 cone.
Results: Neutron 室 equivalent rate 等效 the points 量量 measurement in 發現 treatment room 等 with increased 越遠 to isocenter. 最大值 maximum neutron 在 equivalent are 處 isocenter, and 光子 values for × MV 40×40 為 and 0×0 與 are 184.3±9.0 電子 16.99±5.99 mRem 照射 Gy x-ray, 分別 The values 及 15, 18 於 21 MeV 的 with 25×25 小 cones are 氣泡 and 34.90±2.96 偵測 per Gy-electron, 結論 The neutron 偵檢器 of electron 研究 than 12 穩定 is under 準確 limit.
Conclusion: Bubble 特性 performs the 此量 convenient and 需 properties in 劑量 photoneutron measurement. 等 neutron dose 而 decreased with 並隨電子 distance to 增加 With electron 本量 increased, the 尚 contamination also 為 Further studies 治療 in-phantom measurements 污染 required for 之用 evaluation of 假體 neutron dose 之量測 in the 必須
Purpose: 目的 the photoneutron 氣泡 of 15 器量 X-ray and 加速器 electrons emitted 與 Siemens PRIMUS 電子 accelerator by 子 bubble detector. 材料 and Methods: 方法 bubble detectors 敏度 arranged around 氣泡 linac head 分別 the interval 於 1m and 室 same height 平面 isocenter to 位置 the dose 中心 distribution in 不同 treatment room. 光子 measurements were 與 for 15 與 x-rays with × cm2 and 錐 cm2 fields 治療 for 15, 內 and 21 等效 electrons with 分 cm2 electron 結果 Neutron dose 室 rate in 等效 points of 量量 in the 發現 room decreased 等 increased distance 越遠 isocenter. The 最大值 neutron dose 在 are at 處 and its 光子 for 15 × 40×40 cm2 為 0×0 cm2 與 184.3±9.0 and 電子 mRem per 照射 x-ray, respectively. 分別 values for 及 18 and 於 MeV electrons 的 25×25 cm2 小 are 10.00±2.04,26.27±6.12 氣泡 34.90±2.96 mRem 偵測 Gy-electron, respectively. 結論 neutron contamination 偵檢器 electron less 研究 12 MeV 穩定 under detection 準確 Bubble detector 特性 the stable, 此量 and accuracy 需 in this 劑量 measurement. The 等 dose equivalent 而 with increased 並隨電子 to isocenter. 增加 electron energy 本量 the neutron 尚 also increased. 為 studies of 治療 measurements are 污染 for the 之用 of the 假體 dose equivalent 之量測 the patient.
目的 To assure 建立 radiation treatment 準確 the quality 輸出 of radiotherapy 步驟 is an 省 issue. Currently, 並確 VGHTPE Hospital, 治療 manually calibration 確度 documentation on 而 radiotherapy machine 整體 been used 品質 quality assurance, 精準度 is time 與 while performing . integration and 一類 inter machines. 固態 we set 並依據 an intranet 治療 to perform 能量 calibration and 放置 database to 游離腔 the processing 深度 of quality 孔徑 meanwhile acquire 依據 dated and 游離腔 report after 增建 the procedures 尺寸 been done.
Materials 孔 Methods: 1. 孔 WebPages in 中心 transfermation and 為 use Microsoft 能量 basic 6.0 增建 Borland C++ 固態 4.0 to 尺寸 intranet webpages 為 treatment machines. 厚度 are two 等 (therapeutic technique 此 mechanical quality 裝置 installed on 執行 treatment station, 測試 the tolerance 包括 are well 輻射劑 2. In 量 the daily 穩定度 design a 能量 water solid 射束 (water-equivalent) to 性及 the energy 稱性 and decide 及 depth of 野準 ion chamber. 的 to the 也 of the 雷射 up cap 水平 the tested 校正 chamber to 設計 the size 測試 the cylinder. 目的 size of 頁 up phantom ) 30 cm 寫 30 cm 語言 the depths 程式 varied. By 測試 these devises, 順利將 can run 所得 tests on 各項 daily radiation 資料 stability, x-ray 網路 beam flatness 至 asymmetry, optical 儲存 portal accuracy 日 laser beam 和 and all 為 data are 匯整 
Result: Obtaining 配合 transferring all 人 the data 整合 above from 集結 treatment machines 各式 the main 進而 we could 製 data and 圖 reports at 藉此 weekly, monthly 建立 annually bases 機安險 further plot 保證 according to 及 requirements. By 資料 these procedures, 性能 could assure 結論 quality of 強調 treatment machines 治療 build detailed 的 for property 治療 
Conclusion: While 品質 emphasize the 對 assurance of 最 the quality 的 of treatment 藉由 becomes the 網路 important issue. 傳輸 via practically 快速 computer network 完整 in quality 對 of radiotherapy 治療 is the 到 effective way 監控 reach the 治療 of better 之 assurance.
Purpose: 目的 assure the 建立 treatment accuracy, 準確 quality assurance 輸出 radiotherapy machines 步驟 an important 省 Currently, in 並確 Hospital, daily 治療 calibration and 確度 on each 而 machine have 整體 used on 品質 assurance, which 精準度 time consuming 與 performing data . and transfermation 一類 machines. Therefore, 固態 set up 並依據 intranet system 治療 perform automatic 能量 and integrate 放置 to shorten 游離腔 processing time 深度 quality assurance 孔徑 acquire up 依據 and complete 游離腔 after all 增建 procedures have 尺寸 done.
Materials and 孔 1. Design 孔 in data 中心 and integration, 為 Microsoft visual 能量 6.0 and 增建 C++ builder 固態 to design 尺寸 webpages for 為 machines. There 厚度 two modules 等 technique and 此 quality assurance) 裝置 on each 執行 station, and 測試 tolerance tables 包括 well defined. 輻射劑 In running 量 daily calibration, 穩定度 a virtual 能量 solid phantom 射束 to acquire 性及 energy distribution 稱性 decide the 及 of the 野準 chamber. According 的 the size 也 the build 雷射 cap of 水平 tested ion 校正 to decide 設計 size of 測試 cylinder. The 目的 of build 頁 phantom is ) cm by 寫 cm and 語言 depths are 程式 By using 測試 devises, we 順利將 run the 所得 on the 各項 radiation output 資料 x-ray stability, 網路 flatness and 至 optical range-finder, 儲存 accuracy and 日 beam alignment 和 all the 為 are recorded. 匯整 Obtaining and 配合 all of 人 data mentioned 整合 from various 集結 machines to 各式 main sever, 進而 could integrate 製 and formulate 圖 at daily, 藉此 monthly and 建立 bases and 機安險 plot histograms 保證 to different 及 By performing 資料 procedures, we 性能 assure the 結論 of the 強調 machines and 治療 detailed database 的 property analysis. 治療 While we 品質 the quality 對 of radiotherapy, 最 quality assurance 的 treatment machines 藉由 the most 網路 issue. Therefore, 傳輸 practically use 快速 network system 完整 quality assurance 對 radiotherapy machines 治療 the most 到 way to 監控 the goal 治療 better quality 之
原發性 central nervous 淋巴瘤 lymphoma (PCNSL) 節外 2% of 氏 non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 近年 1-2% of 病例 intracranial tumor. 趨勢 main pathohistologic 淋巴瘤 was high 細胞 B-cell origin. 或 presented multifocal 特徵在 lesions or 腦室 infiltration in 或 brain. The 其 increased in 為 patients associated 合式 immunocompromised condition.
We 併 3 cases 線 pathologically-proved PCNSL, 加上 of whom 加強 a young 獲得 with AIDS 但 the others 毒性 female, age 相 50. They 本文 chemotherapy and 原發性 irradiation of 之診斷 - 5440 兩位 The methotrexate-based 男性 was the 發中 chemotherapy. The 淋巴瘤 with AIDS 治療 at 8 低 after completion 兩位 radiotherapyand another 分別 were alive 及 8 and 病患 years respectively 只 last follow-up.
Primary 原發性 nervous system 淋巴瘤 (PCNSL) comprised 節外 of extranodal 氏 lymphoma and 近年 of primary 病例 tumor. The 趨勢 pathohistologic type 淋巴瘤 high grade 細胞 origin. PCNSL 或 multifocal parenchymal 特徵在 or leptomeningeal 腦室 in the 或 The incidence 其 in the 為 associated with 合式 condition.
We presented 併 cases with 線 PCNSL, one 加上 whom is 加強 young man 獲得 AIDS and 但 others are 毒性 age below 相 They received 本文 and brain 原發性 of 5000 之診斷 5440 cGy. 兩位 methotrexate-based regimen 男性 the effective 發中 The patient 淋巴瘤 AIDS died 治療 8 months 低 completion of 兩位 another 2 分別 alive for 及 and 6 病患 respectively until 只 follow-up.
肺泡 soft part 組織 (ASPS) is 一罕見 very rare 軟 tissue tumor 肉瘤 usually occurs 年 the lower 的 of young 報導 We described 典型 cases of 及 in terms 報告 natural history 疾病 clinical outcome.
The 臨床 case was 治療 female patient 病患 noticed a 歲 swelling in 左 left thigh 一無痛 the age 切除 33. She 是 total removal 組織 the tumor 病患 by post-operative 局部 therapy for 治療 Gy in 胸部 fractions. The 有 was ASPS. 腫瘤 years after 切片 CXR showed 肺泡 nodules which 肉瘤 proved to 三個 metastasis by 腦部 lung biopsy. 攝影 metastasis developed 轉移 months later 病人 was irradiated 接受 Gamma-knife. Six 手術 after radiosurgery 後 metastatic brain 復 the patient 新 surgical excision 而 recurrent and 腦部 developed metastatic 腫瘤 lesions, followed 接著 chemotherapy with 化學 Ifosfamide and 六個 Follow-up brain 的 scan 6 斷層 later revealed 發現 nodules. The 發性 received radiation 遂 to the 放射 brain but 無法 not complete 完整 course. She 而 of lung 月 brain metastases 病患 month later. 歲 second case 表現 a 26-yearold 背痛 presented with 發現 back pain. 有 of T-L 腫瘤 revealed multiple 的 in the 造影 bodies with 有 sac compression 病變合 T11. ASPS 鞘 confirmed by 壓迫 surgical decompression 後 partial removal 肺泡 the extradural 肉瘤 Routine CXR 並 multiple lung 腰椎骨 A meticulous 放射 search led 磁振 find the 顯示 tumor located 位 lateral aspect 的 the left 接下 He underwent 雖 spine irradiation 治療 40.5 Gy 不佳 17 fractions 發病 systemic chemotherapy 個 Epirubicin and 肺泡 for 3 肉瘤 However, no 於 was shown. 早期 patient died 出現 the disease 轉移 months after 為 
ASPS tends 治療 metastasize both 治療 and late. 提高 excision is 局部 mainstay of 是 Radiation therapy 出現 enhance local 時 after surgery 局部 provide meaningful 的 for metastasis.
Alveolar 肺泡 part sarcoma 組織 is a 一罕見 rare soft 軟 tumor which 肉瘤 occurs in 年 lower extremity 的 young adults. 報導 described two 典型 of ASPS 及 terms of 報告 history and 疾病 outcome.
The first 臨床 was a 治療 patient who 病患 a painless 歲 in her 左 thigh at 一無痛 age of 切除 She underwent 是 removal of 組織 tumor followed 病患 post-operative radiation 局部 for 50 治療 in 25 胸部 The diagnosis 有 ASPS. Five 腫瘤 after surgery, 切片 showed multiple 肺泡 which were 肉瘤 to be 三個 by open 腦部 biopsy. Brain 攝影 developed three 轉移 later and 病人 irradiated by 接受 Six months 手術 radiosurgery for 後 brain lesion, 復 patient underwent 新 excision for 而 and newly 腦部 metastatic brain 腫瘤 followed by 接著 with Epirubicin, 化學 and Mesna. 六個 brain CT 的 6 months 斷層 revealed multiple 發現 The patient 發性 radiation therapy 遂 the whole 放射 but could 無法 complete the 完整 She died 而 lung and 月 metastases one 病患 later. The 歲 case was 表現 26-yearold man 背痛 with low 發現 pain. MRI 有 T-L spine 腫瘤 multiple lesions 的 the vertebral 造影 with thecal 有 compression at 病變合 ASPS was 鞘 by a 壓迫 decompression with 後 removal of 肺泡 extradural tumor. 肉瘤 CXR revealed 並 lung nodules. 腰椎骨 meticulous clinical 放射 led to 磁振 the primary 顯示 located at 位 aspect of 的 left thigh. 接下 underwent T-L 雖 irradiation for 治療 Gy in 不佳 fractions and 發病 chemotherapy with 個 and Cyclophosphamide 肺泡 3 months. 肉瘤 no response 於 shown. The 早期 died of 出現 disease 15 轉移 after diagnosis. 為 tends to 治療 both early 治療 late. Surgical 提高 is the 局部 of therapy. 是 therapy may 出現 local control 時 surgery or 局部 meaningful palliation 的 metastasis.
肝細胞癌 carcinoma (HCC) 的 a common 血管 neoplasm in 主要 Asia. HCC 肝門脈 the tendency 的 invade vessels, 也 the portal 侵犯 system. Right 右心房 metastasis through 的 invasion is 差 rare condition 內腫瘤 grave prognosis. 的 resection of 方式 tumors is 病人 difficult and 通常 is too 卻 for the 侵襲性 ill patients. 歲 we present 病人 58-year-old male 肝靜脈 of HCC 右心房 hepatic veins, 因不適 vena cava, 其他 right atrium 之 who received 接受 three-dimensional conformal 順形 (totally 60 共 33 fractions), ) by one 療程 of intra-arterial 治療 with cisplatin 小時 mg/m2 infusion 滴注 6 hours) 血清 5-fluorouracil (2,200 指數 infusion for 隨著 hours). Serum 縮 was markedly 自診斷 and size 個 tumor thrombus 病例 shrinkage. This 可以 survived for 併 more months. 轉移 for HCC 病人 with right 放射 metastasis, three-dimensional 化學 radiotherapy plus 作為 may be 的 effective salvage 替代
Hepatocellular 肝細胞癌 (HCC) is 的 common malignant 血管 in East 主要 HCC has 肝門脈 tendency to 的 vessels, mainly 也 portal venous 侵犯 Right atrium 右心房 through venous 的 is a 差 condition with 內腫瘤 prognosis. Surgical 的 of intra-atrial 方式 is technically 病人 and it 通常 too invasive 卻 the seriously 侵襲性 patients. Here, 歲 present a 病人 male patient 肝靜脈 HCC with 右心房 veins, inferior 因不適 cava, and 其他 atrium invasion, 之 received well-designed 接受 conformal radiotherapy 順形 60 Gy 共 fractions), followed ) one course 療程 intra-arterial chemotherapy 治療 cisplatin (65 小時 infusion for 滴注 hours) and 血清 (2,200 mg/m2 指數 for 24 隨著 Serum alpha-fetoprotein 縮 markedly decreased, 自診斷 size of 個 thrombus was 病例 This patient 可以 for 15 併 months. Therefore, 轉移 HCC patients 病人 right atrium 放射 three-dimensional conformal 化學 plus chemotherapy 作為 be an 的 salvage treatment.
目的 To probe 比 junction fields 技術 of radiotherapy 在 head and 巨大 cancer patients 結的 need radical 方法 to whole 作模擬 wall and 照野 neck lymphatics.
Material 範圍 Methods : 斷層 get a 影像 film and 的 scan image 中心 an Alderson 和 phantom for 技術 field size 配合 lsocenter, and 的 computer planning 製 In this 一號 we showed 來 distribution data 而二號 monoisocentric technique 用 moving junction 及 with or 的 bolus. Two 填充物 bolus were 照野技術 bolus 1 移動 only AP 上 bolus 2 所以 both AP 的 bilateral depth. 首先 there were 計劃 various combinations 模擬 either monoisocentric 方式 moving junction 各種 or without 劑量 First, isodose 曲線 by computer 擺放熱 system was ( to decide 然 to place 各種 The average 情況 dose in 含熱 techniques were 的 by irradiating 三次 phantom packed 接近 TLDs.
Results: Both 所 techniques and 劑量 junction techniques 結果 adequate bolus 熱發光 generate homogenous 誤差 distributions. But 以內 there were 中心 bolus, there 交接 hot area 配合 neck. However 製 were still 獲得 dose distribution 劑量 such as 但是 areas in 頸部 superficial neck 填充物 lateral neck; 薄 areas in 不可 lower neck. 高劑 comparison, monoisocentric 的 with bolus 數區域 tended to 分 better dose 現象 After comparing 落 from TLDs 淺處 computer planning 低劑 we found 後 differences were 似乎 4%. However, 中心 still existed 上二號 some locations 填充物 as field 的 (underestimate 19-22%); 佈 areas (over/underestimate 用 superficial areas 和 5-7%).
Conclusion: Both 預測 techniques and 發現 junction techniques 誤差 with well-designed 然而 can be 尤其 applied in 周邊 head and ) cancer patients 處 huge neck 淺處 There are ) only good 照野技術 ty but 技術 good homogeneity. 良好 to choose 製 optimal technique 於 on patients' 頭頸部 status and 頸部 hospital equipments. 的 suggest that 方便 monoisocentric technique 均 a more 分 technique in 適合 fields. However, 要 well designed 的 is also 製 important to 量 a good 勻 distribution.
Purpose: 目的 probe into 比 fields techniques 技術 radiotherapy in 在 and neck 巨大 patients who 結的 radical radiotherapy 方法 whole pharyngeal 作模擬 and whole 照野 lymphatics.
Material and 範圍 : We 斷層 a simulation 影像 and CT 的 image of 中心 Alderson Rando 和 for defining 技術 size and 配合 and for 的 planning system 製 this study, 一號 showed dose 來 data of 而二號 technique and 用 junction technique 及 or without 的 Two different 填充物 were used: 照野技術 1 emphasized 移動 AP depth, 上 2 emphasized 所以 AP and 的 depth. So 首先 were six 計劃 combinations by 模擬 monoisocentric or 方式 junction with 各種 without bolus. 劑量 isodose distribution 曲線 computer planning 擺放熱 was generated ( decide where 然 place TLDs. 各種 average radiation 情況 in different 含熱 were obtained 的 irradiating the 三次 packed with 接近 Both monoisocentric 所 and moving 劑量 techniques with 結果 bolus could 熱發光 homogenous dose 誤差 But if 以內 were no 中心 there was 交接 area over 配合 However there 製 still uneven 獲得 distribution areas, 劑量 as hot 但是 in anterior 頸部 neck and 填充物 neck; cold 薄 in posterior 不可 neck. In 高劑 monoisocentric technique 的 bolus 2 數區域 to create 分 dose distribution. 現象 comparing data 落 TLDs and 淺處 planning system, 低劑 found most 後 were within 似乎 However, inconsistency 中心 existed in 上二號 locations such 填充物 field margins 的 19-22%); junction 佈 (over/underestimate 9%); 用 areas (underestimate 和 Both monoisocentric 預測 and moving 發現 techniques combined 誤差 well-designed bolus 然而 be satisfactorily 尤其 in treating 周邊 and neck ) patients with 處 neck lymphadenopathy. 淺處 are not ) good reproducibili﹒ 照野技術 but also 技術 homogeneity. How 良好 choose the 製 technique depends 於 patients' clinical 頭頸部 and individual 頸部 equipments. We 的 that the 方便 technique is 均 more convenient 分 in junction 適合 However, an 要 designed bolus 的 also very 製 to get 量 good dose 勻
目的 A numerical 年 dose calculation 電子 was introduced 數值 1992 by 方法 who used 方法 space sampling 等 to simulate 法 energy loss ) angular scattering 的 The drawback 缺點 this numerical 計算時 was its 本 calculation time. 在 our study, 上 equal probability 稱 method was 等 in hope 佈 less sampling 方法 were necessary 減少 the same 並維持 accuracy can 計算準 be maintained. 這篇 results for 我們 energy loss 數值 in homogeneous 能量 were reported.
Material 方面 Methods: The 材料 scattering theory 新 Moliere was 計算 in the 的 numerical algorithm 模擬 simulate electron 過程 scattering; while 角度 ionizational energy 分 theory was 能量 to simulate 則是 energy loss 游離 At present, 理論 loss due 由 bremsstrahlung production 所 not included 能量 the algorithm. 包含 calculation of 研究 stopping power 告針 20, 10 的 6 MeV 射束 incident into 的 under simplified 條件 (excluding electron 未 scattering) was 散射 The energy 水中 process for 質量 same setup 領計算 also simulated. 條件 order to 電子 the calculation 的 of the 為驗證 code, EGS4 程式 Carlo code 確性 adopted to 蒙地 benchmark calculation.
Results: 作為 excluding electron 工具 scattering, the 未 of collisional 角度 power shows 條件 of less 程式 2% between 碰撞 calculation and 本領 reports for 的 energy electrons 較 and 10 高位 For low ) (6 MeV), 於 discrepancy is ( to 3%. 約 calculation esults 而 absolute depth-dose 絕對 demonstrate that 分 calculated depths 計算 50% dose 深度 with EGS4 在 within 3 射程 and the 誤差則 electron ranges 以內 within 2 結果 Landau's theory 理論 suitable for 的 electron ionizational 在 loss in 游離 media and 且 error due 取樣 equal probability 在 of electron 上產生 loss distribution 誤差 acceptable.
Purpose: 目的 numerical electron 年 calculation algorithm 電子 introduced in 數值 by McLellan 方法 used equal 方法 sampling method 等 simulate electron 法 loss and ) scattering distribution. 的 drawback of 缺點 numerical algorithm 計算時 its long 本 time. In 在 study, an 上 probability sampling 稱 was adopted 等 hope that 佈 sampling points 方法 necessary while 減少 same calculation 並維持 can still 計算準 maintained. Calculation 這篇 for electron 我們 loss process 數值 homogeneous media 能量 reported.
Material and 方面 The multiple 材料 theory of 新 was used 計算 the modified 的 algorithm to 模擬 electron angular 過程 while Landau's 角度 energy loss 分 was used 能量 simulate electron 則是 loss process. 游離 present, energy 理論 due to 由 production was 所 included in 能量 algorithm. Test 包含 of collisional 研究 power for 告針 10 and 的 MeV electrons 射束 into water 的 simplified condition 條件 electron multiple 未 was performed. 散射 energy loss 水中 for the 質量 setup was 領計算 simulated. In 條件 to verify 電子 calculation accuracy 的 the numerical 為驗證 EGS4 Monte 程式 code was 確性 to perform 蒙地 calculation.
Results: When 作為 electron multiple 工具 the calculation 未 collisional stopping 角度 shows discrepancy 條件 less than 程式 between numerical 碰撞 and ICRU 本領 for high 的 electrons (20 較 10 MeV). 高位 low electrons ) MeV), this 於 is close ( 3%. The 約 esults of 而 depth-dose distribution 絕對 that the 分 depths of 計算 dose agree 深度 EGS4 to 在 3 mm 射程 the calculated 誤差則 ranges to 以內 2 mm.
Conclusion: 結果 theory is 理論 for simulating 的 ionizational energy 在 in homogeneous 游離 and the 且 due to 取樣 probability sampling 在 electron energy 上產生 distribution is 誤差
目的 The purpose 卡羅法 this work 三維且 to apply 質介質 code to 強大 the 3D 遮蔽 dose distribution 狀 a shielded 器內 applicator set 之 propose a 劑量 to implement 並嘗試 results based 於 Monte Carlo 臨床 into clinical 與 
Materials and 程式 : The 圓筒 model of 置入 spatial dose 射源 was established 評估 using EGS4 以往 and was 目前 with the 之 measured in 評估 previous study 比 evaluated by 一步 commercial treatment 射源 system. Furthermore, 與 dose distributions 組合 unit intensity 並將 source of 資料 probable combination 程式 source and ) situations were 庫人機 and sayed 使用 a database. 圓筒 graphical user 置入 for accessing 治療 database was 計畫 by using 結果 (Interactive Data 中 The results 維劑 by the 模式 model established 採用 this work 比 good agreement 吻合 the results 與 in our 所 study. The 治療 of the 計算 commercial treatment 對 system also 遮蔽 good agreement 在 prescribed dose 方向 radial direction, 劑量 same discrepancy 良好 Source axis. 軸向 discrepancy is 則有 to the 差異 treatment planning 目前 that neglected 系統 heterogeneity effect, 式 as the 射源 material of 中非 and the 如 tube.
Discussions: Through 包封 interactive graphical 射源 interface to 所 the database 採取 by EGS4, 各種 could generate 遮蔽 display the 建立 distribution around 的 shielded cylindrical 界面 set with 幾秒鐘 source under 蒙地 probable combination 結果 source and 一 situations in 的 2, or 顯示 plot. It 如此 to be 蒙地 prototype of 法計算 treatment planning 缺點 based on 以蒙地 Carlo method 預測 the shielded 應用 applicator set.
Purpose: 目的 purpose of 卡羅法 work is 三維且 apply EGS4 質介質 to calculate 強大 3D spatial 遮蔽 distribution around 狀 shielded cylindrical 器內 set and 之 a way 劑量 implement the 並嘗試 based on 於 Carlo method 臨床 clinical applications. 與 and Methods 程式 The simulation 圓筒 of 3D 置入 dose distribution 射源 established by 評估 EGS4 code 以往 was compared 目前 the results 之 in our 評估 study and 比 by existing 一步 treatment planning 射源 Furthermore, the 與 distributions for 組合 intensity lr-l92 並將 of each 資料 combination of 程式 and shielding ) were pre-calculated 庫人機 sayed as 使用 database. A 圓筒 user interface 置入 accessing this 治療 was developed 計畫 using IDLTM 結果 Data Language).
Results: 中 results calculated 維劑 the 3D-simulation 模式 established in 採用 work show 比 agreement with 吻合 results measured 與 our previous 所 The comparison 治療 the existing 計算 treatment planning 對 also show 遮蔽 agreement at 在 dose in 方向 direction, but 劑量 discrepancy in 良好 axis. This 軸向 is due 則有 the commercial 差異 planning system 目前 neglected the 系統 effect, such 式 the encapsulated 射源 of source 中非 the guide 如 Through the 包封 graphical user 射源 to access 所 database pre-calculated 採取 EGS4, users 各種 generate and 遮蔽 the dose 建立 around the 的 cylindrical applicator 界面 with Ir-192 幾秒鐘 under any 蒙地 combination of 結果 and shielding 一 in 1, 的 or 3D 顯示 It seems 如此 be a 蒙地 of our 法計算 planning system 缺點 on Monte 以蒙地 method for 預測 shielded cylindrical 應用 set.
骨骼 osteosarcoma (ESOS) ( a rare 罕見 that accounts 腫瘤 about 1 軟組織 of all 生長 tissue sarcomas. 骨肉瘤 contrast to 一般 of bone 的 occurs most 是 in children 的 adolescents, ESOS 多數 affects adults 男性 their fourth 略 fifth decades. 患者 thigh and 部位 are the 接受 common primary 經驗 sites. There 之一 a slight 是 to female 侵犯 observed in 所有 series. Generally, 是屬 resection followed 之 radiotherapy and/or 外 is recommended. 不好 recurrence usually 的 in more 於 half of 會 patients, but 而 metastasis, most 更 to the 轉移 (＞80% of 轉移 is more ) than local 至 The mortality 小 ranges from 骨骼 to 81 治療 and the 以 5 years 性 rate is 放射 than 25%.
Here 方式 represent a 角色 of ESOS, 然而 had been 了 many times 廣泛 primary resection. 再 gave a 小照 adjuvant radiation 高劑 (7020 cGy) 治療 the conedown 次以 technique and 化學 cycles of 治療 after wide 過程 of the 並不嚴 tumor. Treatment 可以 toxicities were 沒 to the 現今 course and 特定 student was 可以 to continue 骨肉瘤 schooling while 在 treatment.
To date, 蹤 particular method 這個 treatment seems 療法 alter the 在 rate of 方面 After a 初步 period of 儘 up, however, 手術 combined modalities 地 in our 放射 has attained 仍 object of 的 local and 及 disease control.
Extraskeletal 骨骼 (ESOS) is ( rare malignancy 罕見 accounts for 腫瘤 1 % 軟組織 all soft 生長 sarcomas. In 骨肉瘤 to osteosarcoma 一般 bone which 的 most frequently 是 children and 的 ESOS primarily 多數 adults in 男性 fourth and 略 decades. The 患者 and buttocks 部位 the most 接受 primary tumor 經驗 There is 之一 slight male 是 female predominance 侵犯 in most 所有 Generally, wide 是屬 followed by 之 and/or chemotherapy 外 recommended. Local 不好 usually occurs 的 more than 於 of the 會 but distant 而 most common 更 the lung 轉移 of cases), 轉移 more common ) local recurrence. 至 mortality rate 小 from 55.4% 骨骼 81 % 治療 the median 以 years survival 性 is less 放射 25%.
Here we 方式 a case 角色 ESOS, which 然而 been recurred 了 times after 廣泛 resection. We 再 a high 小照 radiation dose 高劑 cGy) using 治療 conedown fields 次以 and 6 化學 of epirubicin 治療 wide excision 過程 the recurrent 並不嚴 Treatment related 可以 were limited 沒 the treatment 現今 and this 特定 was able 可以 continue his 骨肉瘤 while undergoing 在 date, no 蹤 method of 這個 seems to 療法 the survival 在 of ESOS. 方面 a short 初步 of follow 儘 however, the 手術 modalities therapy, 地 our experience, 放射 attained the 仍 of initial 的 and systemic 及 control.
拜臨 salvage surgery 治療 currently used 肢體 treatment of 治療 sarcoma in 已成 by the 目前 in chemotherapy. 趨勢 prosthesis, allograft 關節 autograft had 骨 used for 骨 defect reconstruction. 均 use of 用作 avoids some 重建 of tumor 其中 such as 關節 of soft 的 attachment and 缺乏 loosening after 腫瘤 period of 固定 and decreases 另外 probabilities of 時間 infection and 生 as what 現 happen with 骨 So autograft 的 the best 於 in bone 感染 However, it 合 impossible to 骨質 exactly the 以自體 length of 不會 as what 問題 had resected 得到 the operation 結果 our body. 經由肢體 the use 所 intraoperative extracorporeal 甚長 to the 可能 bearing bone 同一 the soft 找到 is preserved 度 the dead 可作 can be 骨 to re-implant 經由 substitute the 外 defect. There 照射 no limitation 可 dose escalation 骨段 irradiation of 及 extracorporeally. The 之 change of 作為 adjacent normal 的 tissue induced 移植 radiation need 於 to be 照射 In this 劑量 we tried 限制 use this 不須 method to 造成 a tumor 組織 autograft for 變化 salvage surgery 嘗試 two cases 新 locally advanced 兩位 sarcoma in 骨肉 limbs. A 病人 dose of 中體 cGy was 線 to the 帶腫瘤 bearing bone 於 resected from 立即 cases. The 原來 irradiated specimen 的 sent back 自體 the operation 此二例 immediately for 於 The initial 可 result was 自行 after six 這兩例 of immobilization. 於 extracorporeal irradiation 後 no dose 發生 plays an 發 role in 手術 a sterile 劑量 free autograft 及 good bone 施行 of the 術 leg. Unfortunately 此二例 cases had 早期 tumor recurrence 復 one year 主因 operation, inadequate 外 chemotherapy and 治療 (marginal) resection 可 locally advanced 的 may be 移植 main reasons 在 these early 施行 We think 保留 limb salvage 嚴格 is a 對化學 method only 良好 some highly 手術 patients with 可能 neoadjuvant chemotherapeutic 切除 Moreover, the 病患 bearing bone 降低 should be 後 with wide 復 margin to 到 a better 手術 local tumor control.
Limb 拜臨 surgery is 治療 used in 肢體 of osteogenic 治療 in extremities 已成 the advances 目前 chemotherapy. Tumor 趨勢 allograft and 關節 had been 骨 for bone 骨 reconstruction. The 均 of autograft 用作 some disadvantages 重建 tumor prosthesis 其中 as difficulty 關節 soft tissue 的 and implant 缺乏 after a 腫瘤 of time 固定 decreases the 另外 of wound 時間 and nonunion 生 what might 現 with allograft. 骨 autograft provides 的 best result 於 bone reconstruction. 感染 it is 合 to find 骨質 the same 以自體 of autograft 不會 what we 問題 resected in 得到 operation from 結果 body. By 經由肢體 use of 所 extracorporeal irradiation 甚長 the tumor 可能 bone segment, 同一 soft tissue 找到 preserved and 度 dead bone 可作 be used 骨 re-implant and 經由 the bone 外 There is 照射 limitation in 可 escalation for 骨段 of bone 及 The sarcomatous 之 of the 作為 normal soft 的 induced by 移植 need not 於 be considered. 照射 this paper, 劑量 tried to 限制 this new 不須 to provide 造成 tumor free 組織 for limb 變化 surgery in 嘗試 cases of 新 advanced osteogenic 兩位 in lower 骨肉 A tumor 病人 of 30000 中體 was applied 線 the tumor 帶腫瘤 bone segment 於 from both 立即 The heavily 原來 specimen was 的 back to 自體 operation room 此二例 for re﹒implantation. 於 initial functional 可 was encouraging 自行 six months 這兩例 immobilization. Intraoperative 於 irradiation with 後 dose limitation 發生 an important 發 in providing 手術 sterile tumor 劑量 autograft with 及 bone union 施行 the diseased 術 Unfortunately both 此二例 had local 早期 recurrence within 復 year after 主因 inadequate neoadjuvant 外 and inadequate 治療 resection for 可 advanced disease 的 be the 移植 reasons for 在 early recurrences. 施行 think that 保留 salvage surgery 嚴格 a potential 對化學 only for 良好 highly selected 手術 with good 可能 chemotherapeutic response. 切除 the tumor 病患 bone segment 降低 be resected 後 wide surgical 復 to achieve 到 better long-term 手術 tumor control.
目的 Monte Carlo 卡羅 of the 模擬 of Siemens 機頭 for the 病人 step of 劑量 dose calculation.
Material 驅步驟 Methods: EGS4 與 user code, 以 was used 的 this study. 模擬 detailed, linac 軟體 structure, 6 廠商 15 MV 之 l0×10 cm2 機頭構 20×20 cm2 擬 were simulated. 光子 were collected 先 scored plane, 網鏡 is set 平面 retied, and 由 as phase 輪下 source in 訊息 With simulating 以此 30 x 當作 x 30 射源 water phantom 在 DOSXYZ, dose 不同 at various 的 and percent 分 dose curve 深度 gained. The 劑量 results will 計算 with Wellhofer 水假 system measurement.
Results 統量 Discussion: The 較 profiles of 與 and 15 與 in- and 在 field fit 與 well with 野外 data. However, 契合 data encountered 但 than 3% 邊界處 than measured 結果 at penumbra 高 Percent depth 測結果 curves were 差 1.5% error 在 each point 百分率 simulation and 曲線 in 6 與 while within 測結果 %in 15 差均 Monte Carlo . results fit 以內 well with 蒙地 scan data 與 dose profiles 測結果 percent depth 因為 curve. However, 計算 Carlo simulation 需時間 time consuming 不符 is not 所 for clinics 可 far. Parallel 平行 and modeling 或 considered for 改善
Purpose: 目的 Carlo simulation 卡羅 the head 模擬 Siemens PRIMUS 機頭 the following 病人 of patient 劑量 calculation.
Material and 驅步驟 EGS4 based 與 code, OMEGA/BEAM, 以 used in 的 study. With 模擬 linac head 軟體 6 and 廠商 MV of 之 cm2 and 機頭構 cm2 fields 擬 simulated. Particles 光子 collected in 先 plane, which 網鏡 set under 平面 and treat 由 phase space 輪下 in DOSXYZ. 訊息 simulating in 以此 x 30 當作 30 em3 射源 phantom via 在 dose profiles 不同 various depth 的 percent depth 分 curve were 深度 The simulation 劑量 will compare 計算 Wellhofer scan 水假 measurement.
Results and 統量 The dose 較 of 6 與 15 MV 與 and out- 在 fit quite 與 with measured 野外 However, simulation 契合 encountered less 但 3% larger 邊界處 measured one 結果 penumbra region. 高 depth dose 測結果 were within 差 error of 在 point of 百分率 and measurement 曲線 6 MY 與 within 1 測結果 15 MV.
Conclusion: 差均 Carlo simulation . fit quite 以內 with Wellhofer 蒙地 data of 與 profiles and 測結果 depth dose 因為 However, Monte 計算 simulation is 需時間 consuming and 不符 not feasible 所 clinics so 可 Parallel computing 平行 modeling may 或 for improvement.
目得 Skin complication 副作用 the main 治療 of radiation 主要 that interrupts 發症 treatment schedule 造成 is of 療程 to quantify. 以 study measured 做 skin dose 的 some clinical 重要 by using 必須 TLDs.
Materials and 研究 Measurements were 超薄型 for 6-15 計量 photons and 臨床 MeV electrons 情況 ultra-thin TLDs 的 surface area 材料 x 0.5 方法 nominal thickness 利用 mg. cm-2 熱發 sensitive layer). ( skin dose × various field 厚度 ranging from ) x 10 及 to 40 在 40 cm2, 面積 incident angle × beam, from ) 80°, were 不同 The measurements 入射角 also performed ( the skin ° on phantom 下 0 mm, 劑量 mm, 5 假體 and 10 厚 bolus covered.
Results 擬組織 Discussion: The ) of mean 的 dose to 亦 dose in 量 for 10 與 10 cm2 對 16.1O±0.68%, 14.03± × and 10.59±0.64% 假體 6, 10 劑量 15 MY 假體 increasing with 劑量 field size. 比 electrons, the 與 are 72.59± 隨照 78.52± 2.99%, 而 ± 2.86%, 對 2.62%, 87.75± 該值 and 86.33± 為 for 6, 隨照 12, 15, 增加 and 21 增加 respectively, increasing 基底 increased field 因子 The basal 入射角 oblique factors 而 with increased 結論 angle. 
Conclusion: 與 mean PDD 假體 of skin 直 with increased 野 size for 增加 photons and 層 The basal 隨射束 oblique factor 度增 with increased 擬組織 angle. The ( will increase 增加 skin dose 劑量 eliminate the 傾斜 factor.
Purpose: 目得 complication is 副作用 main event 治療 radiation therapy 主要 interrupts the 發症 schedule and 造成 of important 療程 quantify. This 以 measured the 做 dose at 的 clinical setups 重要 using ultra-thin 必須 and Methods: 研究 were performed 超薄型 6-15 MV 計量 and 6-21 臨床 electrons with 情況 TLDs (GR-200F, 的 area 0.5 材料 0.5 cm2, 方法 thickness 5 利用 cm-2 of 熱發 layer). The ( dose of × field sizes, 厚度 from 10 ) 10 cm2 及 40 x 在 cm2, and 面積 angle )f × from 0°to ) were measured. 不同 measurements were 入射角 performed for ( skin dose ° phantom with 下 mm, 3 劑量 5 mm 假體 10 mm 厚 covered.
Results and 擬組織 The ratios ) mean surface 的 to maximum 亦 in phantom 量 10 x 與 cm2 are 對 14.03± 1.04% × 10.59±0.64% for 假體 10 and 劑量 MY respectively, 假體 with increased 劑量 size. For 比 the ratios 與 72.59± 1.72%, 隨照 2.99%, 78.89 而 2.86%, 86.08± 對 87.75± 1.94% 該值 86.33± 3.09% 為 6, 9, 隨照 15, 18 增加 21 MeV 增加 increasing with 基底 field size. 因子 basal layer 入射角 factors increase 而 increased incident 結論 
Conclusion: The 與 PDD value 假體 skin increases 直 increased field 野 for both 增加 and electrons. 層 basal layer 隨射束 factor increases 度增 increased incident 擬組織 The bolus ( increase the 增加 dose and 劑量 the oblique 傾斜
目的 To evaluate 線 efficacy of 對 and BSO 神經膠 the GSH ) of GBM 材料 and Methods 本實驗 Exponentially growing 實驗 of GBM/8401 進行 were used 基硫 this study. 之測定 GSH concentrations 測定 GBM cells 質 with radiation 放射 BSO (D, 及 R-sulfox-imine) were 處理 Cells were 在 with dosage 環境 from 0 放射 14 Gy 及 gamma radiation 改變 a cobalt 結果 machine. The 濃度 of GSH ) irradiated GBM ( treated with 故 without BSO 之 evaluated under 照射 and hypoxic 隨著 The intracellular 的 of glutathione 有 was 9.93± 細胞經 ug/mg of 濃度 protein. In 及 the [GSH] 後 gradually after 之 by cobalt-60 放射 2~14 Gy. 之 [GSH] in 上升 cells were 細胞 after treated ] BSO. Also, 處理 increased gradually 濃度 irradiated from 線 to high 及 of irradiation. 照射 [GSH] in 之 GBM cells 照射 32.45±0.25. It 增加 13.36±0.47 after 現象 with BSO. 細胞經 general, the ] [GSH] after 情形 from low 細胞 high dose 後 radiation increased 分析 no matter 減少 with BSO 再 not. BSO 兩組 able to 變化 the intracellular 狀態 but this 立即 not significant 之 hypoxic cells 線 and 48 放射 after treatment. [ of intracellular 上升 is also 此 closely related 處理 the present 為 oxygen or 線 (1). In 之 group, the ) concentrations in 或 cells decrease 無顯 treated with 一 In hypoxic 處理後細胞 the GSH 有 decreased only 但是 cells analyzed 只有 after irradiation. 立即 There is ] significant association ) GSH concentrations 後 irradiated GBM 內 and various 與 conditions. (3). 狀態 general, GSH 係 increase in 線 to radiation 隨著 This is 增加 evident after 漸 the cells 趨勢 BSO or 趨勢經 hours after 照射 Gradually increased 小時 of GSH 此種 less repair 逐漸 the damaged 隨著 from radiation 細胞 more biologic 愈 in accordance 生物 high radiation 顯著
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 線 of radiation 對 BSO on 神經膠 GSH concentration ) GBM cells.
Materials 材料 Methods : 本實驗 growing cultures 實驗 GBM/8401 cells 進行 used for 基硫 study. The 之測定 concentrations in 測定 cells treated 質 radiation and/or 放射 (D, L-buthionine-S, 及 were determined. 處理 were irradiated 在 dosage ranged 環境 0 to 放射 Gy with 及 radiation using 改變 cobalt 60 結果 The concentration 濃度 GSH in ) GBM cells ( with or 故 BSO was 之 under aerobic 照射 hypoxic conditions.
Result: 隨著 intracellular concentration 的 glutathione ([GSH]) 有 9.93± 0.46 細胞經 of cellular 濃度 In general, 及 [GSH] increased 後 after irradiated 之 cobalt-60 with 放射 Gy. The 之 in OBM 上升 were 8.78±0.05 細胞 treated with ] Also, [GSH] 處理 gradually after 濃度 from low 線 high dose 及 irradiation. The 照射 in hypoxic 之 cells were 照射 It was 增加 after treated 現象 BSO. In 細胞經 the cellular ] after irradiated 情形 low to 細胞 dose of 後 increased gradually 分析 matter treated 減少 BSO or 再 BSO is 兩組 to deplete 變化 intracellular [GSH] 狀態 this is 立即 significant in 之 cells 24 線 48 hours 放射 treatment. Change [ intracellular [GSH] 上升 also not 此 related with 處理 present of 為 or not.
Conclusion: 線 In aerobic 之 the GSH ) in OBM 或 decrease after 無顯 with BSO. 一 hypoxic group, 處理後細胞 GSH concentration 有 only in 但是 analyzed immediately 只有 irradiation. (2). 立即 is no ] association between ) concentrations of 後 GBM cells 內 various oxygenated 與 (3). In 狀態 GSH concentration 係 in proportional 線 radiation dose. 隨著 is more 增加 after treated 漸 cells with 趨勢 or 24~48 趨勢經 after irradiation 照射 increased concentration 小時 GSH represents 此種 repair of 逐漸 damaged cells 隨著 radiation and 細胞 biologic effects 愈 accordance with 生物 radiation dose.
目的 Arylamine N-acetylation 胺 by the 基乙 (NAT) may 轉移 an important ) factor in 基乙 initiation of 發癌 Lomustine is 常用 commercially avail-able 腦瘤 derivative and 一種 nitrosourea compound 本 applied in 是 therapy especially 大白鼠 central nervous 膠質 The aaffect 外培養 lomustine on 中 activity of 轉移臨 in rat 的 in vitro 與 cells were 取 
Materials and 膠質 Rat glioma 之體 vitro cultured ( cytosol (n=12) 用 used to 化輔 for the 作乙 of lomustine 再 the activity 高壓 NAT toward 分析 (AF) and 醯 acid (PABA) 的 an acetyl 及 A (AcCoA) 神經 assay and 細胞瘤 pressure liquid 細胞 (HPLC).
Results: Activity 乙 N-acetyltransferase in 由 glioma in 的 cultured cell ( is found 和 be inhibited 作受質 lomustine. Its 結果 in the 神經 medium shows 細胞瘤 inhibition in 細胞 (AF-NAT) activity 及 of 17.6%, 有 and 45.4% 醯 rat glioma 活性 vitro cultured 其 at 0.8 的 8 μM 平均值 80 μM 在 lomustine concentrations μ while as 濃度 acid-N-acetyltransferase (PABA-NAT) 大白鼠 decreased about 細胞瘤 27.1% and 外培養 in rat 活性 cells with 約 and 80(M 約 lomustine concentrations 可 The results 神經 this study 細胞瘤 that the 細胞 activity of 乙 glioma cultured ? are decreased by lomustine.
Purpose: 目的 N-acetylation capacity 胺 the N-acetyltransferase 基乙 may be 轉移 important causative ) in the 基乙 of cancer. 發癌 is a 常用 avail-able nitrosourea 腦瘤 and chloroethyl 一種 compound which 本 in antineopstic 是 especially in 大白鼠 nervous system. 膠質 aaffect of 外培養 on the 中 of NAT 轉移臨 rat glioma 的 vitro cultured 與 were investigated. 取 and Methods: 膠質 glioma in 之體 cultured cell ( (n=12) were 用 to investigate 化輔 the effect 作乙 lomustine on 再 activity of 高壓 toward 2-amniofluorene 分析 and p-aminiobenzoic 醯 (PABA) using 的 acetyl coenzyme 及 (AcCoA) recycling 神經 and high 細胞瘤 liquid chromatography 細胞 Activity of 乙 in rat 由 in vitro 的 cell cytosol ( found to 和 inhibited by 作受質 Its presence 結果 the assay 神經 shows an 細胞瘤 in aminofluorene-N-acetyltransferase 細胞 activity about 及 17.6%, 31.5% 有 45.4% in 醯 glioma in 活性 cultured cells 其 0.8 μM, 的 μM and 平均值 μM of 在 concentrations respectively; μ as p-aminobenzoic 濃度 (PABA-NAT) activity 大白鼠 about 10.4%, 細胞瘤 and 45.8% 外培養 rat glioma 活性 with 0.8μM,8μM 約 80(M of 約 concentrations respectively.
Conclusion: 可 results of 神經 study show 細胞瘤 the NAT 細胞 of rat 乙 cultured cells ? decreased by lomustine.
背景 The aim 之 this study 分析 to analyze 肉瘤 survival status 新光 adult patients 術後輔 soft tissue 治療 who received 材料 adjuvant radiotherapy 從 Shin Kong 的 Ho-Su Memorial 病患 Taipei, Taiwan.
Materials 因軟 Methods: From 接受 through 1996, 放射 adult patients 人 7, F: 臨床 were diagnosed 依照 soft tissue 歷紀錄 (STS) to 治療 treated with 定期 adjuvant radiotherapy 蹤 our institute. 接受 staging was 追 on the 時間 medical records. 追 survival status 併 based on 死亡 follow-up (11/16) 存活 interrupted follow-up 存活率 with national 局部 registry and 發 visits (5/16). 遠端 overall cause 存活率 survival (OS), 無病 relapse free ) (LRRFS), and 計算 metastasis free 追 (DMFS), and 月 free survival ) were analyzed 死 the Kaplan-Meier 復 After a 病人 follow-up of 肺 (7-81) months, 病人 patients are 其他 without disease, ) died of 無 relapse, two 情形 of distant 因 and one ( of concurrent 為 (HCC). The ％ LRRFS, DMFS, 局部 DFS at ( years and 為 years were 五年 and 80%, 轉移 and 92.3%, ) and 84%, 三年 77% and 存活率 respectively. The 均 included one 發症 bleeding (RTOG 出血 III) and 第三 poor wound 傷口 (RTOG grade 不良 In our 級 postoperative adjuvant 依 can achieve 成人 local controlled 手術 in adult 治療 tissue sarcoma 局部 acceptable complication.
Background: 背景 aim of 之 study is 分析 analyze the 肉瘤 status of 新光 patients with 術後輔 tissue sarcoma 治療 received postoperative 材料 radiotherapy at 從 Kong Wu 的 Memorial Hospital, 病患 Taiwan.
Materials and 因軟 From 1993 接受 1996, 16 放射 patients (M: 人 F: 9) 臨床 diagnosed with 依照 tissue sarcoma 歷紀錄 to be 治療 with postoperative 定期 radiotherapy in 蹤 institute. TNM 接受 was based 追 the hospital 時間 records. The 追 status was 併 on regular 死亡 (11/16) and 存活 follow-up combined 存活率 national mortality 局部 and telephone 發 (5/16). The 遠端 cause specific 存活率 (OS), local-regional 無病 free survival ) and distant 計算 free survival 追 and disease 月 survival (DFS) ) analyzed using 死 Kaplan-Meier method.
Results: 復 a median 病人 of 55 肺 months, 12 病人 are survivors 其他 disease, one ) of local 無 two died 情形 distant metastases, 因 one died ( concurrent disease 為 The OS, ％ DMFS, and 局部 at 3 ( and 5 為 were 87.5% 五年 80%, 92.3% 轉移 92.3%, 84% ) 84%, and 三年 and 77% 存活率 The complications 均 one rectal 發症 (RTOG grade 出血 and one 第三 wound healing 傷口 grade IV).
Conclusion: 不良 our experience, 級 adjuvant radiotherapy 依 achieve high 成人 controlled rate 手術 adult soft 治療 sarcoma with 局部 complication.
目的 To evaluate 年來 change in 氏病 subgroups and 組織 distribution of 年齡分 disease over 的 past twenty-six 材料 and Method: 方法 reviewed medical 至 of Hodgkin's 在 diagnosed and 榮總診斷 in Veterans 治療 Hospital-Taipei from 氏病 to 1995. 共有 age distribution, 分析 and histology 與 are analyzed.
Results: 分穎 is a 分 age distribution, 情形 at 15 氏病 24 and 年齡 to 64.When 現雙 distribution was 在 analyzed according 與 the time 歲間 diagnosis, there 發生率 an increasing 若 of patients 診斷 the 15 時間 24 age 可發現 and decreasing 年間 of the 歲 to 64 高峰 group. Male 不明 female ratio 至 3.2: 1. 診斷 histological proved 病例 mixed cellularity 高峰 disease (MCHD) 因此 the predominant 氏病 during 1970 發生 1989. The 輕化 of nodular 傾向 Hodgkin's disease 與 is increasing 之 the study 組織 It has 以 the most 細胞 histology type ) 1990 to 多 There are 硬化 significant changes ) the demographic 若 of Hodgkin's 年代 at the 發現 of diagnosis 硬化 the study 而 First, the 細胞則 of young 減少 patients is 台北 Second, the 的 of MCHD 氏病 decreasing and 病例 of NSHD 特性 increasing. These 年 changes are 二 with previous 硬化 that economical 額 correlates with 研究 age and 期間 subgroup distribution 經濟 Hodgkin's disease. 的 our observations 在國 consistent with 獻中 hypothesis that 有 or infectious 氏病 are contributing 發生 in the 與 of HD. 分類 multi-institutional study 社會 warranted to 地位 the significance 改善 our observation.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 年來 in histology 氏病 and age 組織 of Hodgkin's 年齡分 over the 的 twenty-six years.
Material 材料 Method: We 方法 medical records 至 Hodgkin's disease 在 and treated 榮總診斷 Veterans General 治療 from 1970 氏病 1995. The 共有 distribution, sex, 分析 histology subgroupings, 與 analyzed.
Results: There 分穎 a bimodal 分 distribution, peaked 情形 15 to 氏病 and 55 年齡 64.When age 現雙 was further 在 according to 與 time of 歲間 there is 發生率 increasing frequency 若 patients at 診斷 15 to 時間 age group 可發現 decreasing frequency 年間 the 55 歲 64 age 高峰 Male to 不明 ratio is 至 1. For 診斷 proved cases, 病例 cellularity Hodgkin's 高峰 (MCHD) is 因此 predominant type 氏病 1970 to 發生 The incidence 輕化 nodular sclerosis 傾向 disease (NSHD) 與 increasing during 之 study period. 組織 has become 以 most prevalent 細胞 type during ) to 1995.
Conclusion: 多 are two 硬化 changes in ) demographic data 若 Hodgkin's disease 年代 the time 發現 diagnosis during 硬化 study period. 而 the incidence 細胞則 young adult 減少 is increasing. 台北 the frequency 的 MCHD is 氏病 and that 病例 NSHD is 特性 These two 年 are consistent 二 previous reports 硬化 economical status 額 with the 研究 and histology 期間 distribution of 經濟 disease. Thus, 的 observations are 在國 with the 獻中 that environmental 有 infectious agents 氏病 contributing factors 發生 the pathogenesis 與 HD. Further 分類 study is 社會 to confirm 地位 significance of 改善 observation.
目的 In an 縮 to shorten 全身 setup time 擺設 increase setup 每次 we developed 現性 supplemental system 左右 a bilateral 的 technique of 來 body irradiation. 並據 completed the 相關 study and 來 data measurement 測量 clinical application.
Materials 材料 Methods: A 水假體 water phantom, 長 cm (L) ( 35 cm 公分 x 37 側面 (H? with 視窗 lateral Mylar 農夫型 built in 及 farmer type 下面 was used 平台 this measurement. 高度 measurement was 西門子 with 6 六百 photon at 照野開 gantry angle, 射源 and 135° 公分 angle with 度 field size, 度 at 400~500 在 source-phantom distance. 公分 measured items 劑量 dose rates, 剖面 profiles, percent 補償器 dose, and 因子 factors for 製 tissue compensator 床 beam spoiler. 力 The ratio 病人 percent depth 擺設 at 10 容易 and 20 離 depth with 百分 400~500 cm 以 was 0.5%. 深度 flatness of 說 profiles was 的 (5% under 公分 same conditions. 剖面 dose output 在 were also 度 for clinical 為 We measured 甚遠 attenuation coefficient 平方 the compensator 也 Besides, we 繪 that a 臨床 cm thick 因為 screen at 位置 cm from 較 patient was 作 to build 償 the surface 劑量 Our bilateral 表面 technique for 壓克力 body irradiation 前方 achieve more 足夠 and reproducible 利用 than that 普遍 conventional anterior/posterior 兩側 There is 全身 advantage of 適當 the arms 的 patients to 準確 the lungs, 遮檔 it can 犧牲劑 the lung 能 effectively. Although 時 technique is 雖 new, it 可 be a 全身 of total 參考 irradiation.
Purpose: 目的 an attempt 縮 shorten patient 全身 time and 擺設 setup reproducibility, 每次 developed a 現性 system for 左右 bilateral opposed 的 of total 來 irradiation. We 並據 the dosimetry 相關 and beam 來 measurement for 測量 application.
Materials and 材料 A small-size 水假體 phantom, (35 長 (L) x ( cm (W) 公分 37 cm 側面 with a 視窗 Mylar window, 農夫型 in a 及 type chamber, 下面 used for 平台 measurement. The 高度 was performed 西門子 6 MV 六百 at 270° 照野開 angle, 45° 射源 135° collimator 公分 with maximum 度 size, and 度 400~500 cm 在 distance. The 公分 items were 劑量 rates, beam 剖面 percent depth 補償器 and transmission 因子 for both 製 compensator and 床 spoiler. 
Results: 力 ratio of 病人 depth doses 擺設 10 cm 容易 20 cm 離 with in 百分 cm SSD 以 0.5%. The 深度 of beam 說 was within 的 under the 公分 conditions. The 剖面 output ratios 在 also measured 度 clinical treatment. 為 measured the 甚遠 coefficient for 平方 compensator material. 也 we found 繪 a 1 臨床 thick Lucite 因為 at 10 位置 from the 較 was enough 作 build up 償 surface dose.
Conclusions: 劑量 bilateral opposed 表面 for total 壓克力 irradiation can 前方 more comfortable 足夠 reproducible levels 利用 that of 普遍 anterior/posterior technique. 兩側 is an 全身 of using 適當 arms of 的 to shield 準確 lungs, and 遮檔 can reduce 犧牲劑 lung dose 能 Although this 時 is not 雖 it can 可 a choice 全身 total body 參考
目的 Dependent on 本科 equipment and 設備 available, we 參酌 “six-dual-field technique” 照野法 administer total 進行 electron radiation 電子束 (TSET). Our 治療 with dosimetric 學實務 for this 材料 is reported.
Materials 射源 Methods: The 距離 distance (SSD) ) extended to 治療 323 cm, 前 an 0.8 之 acrylic screen 板 installed at 束 cm in 減初 of the 的 plane to 首先 the beam 能 attenuate the 方向 energy. At 最佳 the optimal 勻度 angle was 成 in order ( achieve feasible 並量測 uniformity in 垂直 vertical dimension, 的 then field 度 could be 片劑 Film dosimetry 法求 applied to 治療 depth dose 的 profile of 相關 beam at 據 plane. Accordingly, 直線 output of 的 linear accelerator 熱發 be calibrated. ( factor was 測量 to be 上 represented as 和 ratio of 的 absorbed dose 劑量 all six 以 to that 倍數 one dual-field 簡稱 with thermoluminescent 便 (TLDs) taped 治療 Rando phantom. 野所 the value 給予 MU for 再 field could 模擬 calculated. TLDs 條件 used for 進行 vivo dosimetry 體表劑 verify the 並評 dose and 劑 dose variation ( different anatomic 結果 The determined 實驗 angle (20 測量 and multiplication ( (2.68) were ) to those ) in the 參數 Depth dose 經驗 and beam 電子 were satisfying, 量子 X-ray background 及 (0.75%) was 克 acceptable. Markedly 令人 output of 直線 Linac (0.0684 雖 could be 減小 compensated with 但 escalation of 著 rate (600 率 Thus, each 使 would not 治療 too much 過長 Does variation 體表 different sites 與 skin is 報告 with the 水平 of other 的 Instead, field 度略 in the 不足 dimension (±1O% 範圍 60 cm) ) not meet 全身 requirement given 放射 AAPM.
Conclusion: The 的 of TSET 復 complex. Dosimetry 每位 this modality 劑量 be studied 考慮須 by case 系統性 and thoroughly.
Purpose: 目的 on the 本科 and facilities 設備 we adopted 參酌 technique” to 照野法 total skin 進行 radiation therapy 電子束 Our experience 治療 dosimetric measurements 學實務 this modality 材料 reported.
Materials and 射源 The source-to-surface 距離 (SSD) was ) to be 治療 cm, and 前 0.8 cm-thick 之 screen was 板 at 15 束 in front 減初 the treatment 的 to scatter 首先 beam and 能 the electron 方向 At first, 最佳 optimal dual-field 勻度 was determined 成 order to ( feasible dose 並量測 in the 垂直 dimension, and 的 field flatness 度 be assured. 片劑 dosimetry was 法求 to define 治療 dose distribution 的 of electron 相關 at treatment 據 Accordingly, the 直線 of the 的 accelerator could 熱發 calibrated. Multiplication ( was deter-mined 測量 be 2.68, 上 as the 和 of the 的 dose from 劑量 six dual-fields 以 that from 倍數 dual-field measured 簡稱 thermoluminescent dosimeters 便 taped at 治療 phantom. Thus, 野所 value of 給予 for each 再 could be 模擬 TLDs were 條件 for in 進行 dosimetry to 體表劑 the skin 並評 and evaluate 劑 variation at ( anatomic sites.
Results: 結果 determined dual-field 實驗 (20 ) 測量 multiplication factor ( were comparable ) those described ) the literature. 參數 dose distribution 經驗 beam penetration 電子 satisfying, and 量子 background level 及 was also 克 Markedly decreased 令人 of the 直線 (0.0684 cGy/MU) 雖 be partially 減小 with the 但 of dose 著 (600 MU/min). 率 each treatment 使 not cost 治療 much time. 過長 variation among 體表 sites at 與 is compatible 報告 the experience 水平 other institutions. 的 field flatness 度略 the horizontal 不足 (±1O% within 範圍 cm) did ) meet the 全身 given by 放射 The technique 的 TSET is 復 Dosimetry for 每位 modality should 劑量 studied case 考慮須 case systematically 系統性 thoroughly.
目的 This article 首先 and compares 書 latest TO-51 檢討 dosimetry protocol 臨床 the earlier 方法 TG-21. Based 並且 the methodology 議定 TG-21 and 方法 the differences 直線 clinical dosimetry 輸 for both 的 are described 後 performed. Finally, 劑量 in performing 時應 latest protocol 考量 listed to 避免 errors in 的 and Methods: 與 electrometer (Keithley 認證 with 0.6 劑量 Farmer type ( chamber (NE2571) 校正 0.04 C.c. 器材 parallel ion . were employed 圓柱式 the measurements. . electrometer and 游離腔 chambers were 直線 by the 光子 Dosimetry Calibration 與 (ADCL) in 能量 of Texas. 能量 linear accelerators 量 358 (Photon 量 energy with 議定 MV) and 方法 s/n:180 (Photon 直線 energies with 輸出 and 18 較 electron beam 單位 energies 6, 劑量 12, 16 變化 20 MeV) 在 used for 的 measurements. The 分別 protocols were 的 on TG-21 ％ TG-51 respectively, ％ output doses 變化量 to observe 由 variations in 譜 monitor unit 且 the absorbed 有 (cGy/MU).
Results: The 的 of monitor 與 in 6 輸出 photon were 結果 0.7% and 大 18 MV 電子 was 2.2%, 在 the average 對 photon energies 改變 1.43%. The 的 the photon 的 the larger 較 variation, suggesting 略 higher photon 原因 produce more 書 radiation due 射束 wider distributed 方面 spectrum. For 測量 electron beam, 議定 variations in 而且 units were 準確 1.5 - 來 with the 臨床 of 1.84%, 射束 no dependency 本領 the electron 係 energies. The 平行 in electron 納入 output were 電子 higher than 劑量 photon beam, 會 reasons are 做 measurement points 的 TO-51 protocol 結論 electron beam 議定 different from 需要 protocl, a 本領 precise method ) prescribe the 能量 between the 數 beam quality 等 stopping power 的 of the 也 beam and 計算 plane parallel 上 chamber is 因子 for the 書 beam measurements.
Conclusion: 上 TG-51 protocol 上 simple campared 議定 TG-21 protocol 容易 large tables 也 stopping power 地 and mass-energy 工作 coefficients are 過程 and the 地 does not 單 to calculate . theoretical dosimetry 依循 hence reduces 單 errors. For 就 worksheets encompass 簡單 measurement steps 準確 required equipment 出來 provided. In 臨床 it is 時 recommended that 的 primary standards 符合 should be 的 to provide 與 absorbed-dose-to-water calibration 的 (N)for ion 此籲 to avoid 原級 errors and 廣泛 meet the 的 in advanced 劑量 therapy and (
Purpose: 目的 article introduces 首先 compares the 書 TO-51 clinical 檢討 protocol to 臨床 earlier protocol, 方法 Based on 並且 methodology of 議定 and TG-51, 方法 differences in 直線 dosimetry measurements 輸 both protocols 的 described and 後 Finally, precautions 劑量 performing the 時應 protocol were 考量 to avoid 避免 in clinic.
Materials 的 Methods: The 與 (Keithley 35617EBS) 認證 0.6 c.c. 劑量 type cylindricalion ( (NE2571) and 校正 C.c. plane 器材 ion chamber . employed for 圓柱式 measurements. The . and ion 游離腔 were authenticated 直線 the Accredited 光子 Calibration Laboratory 與 in University 能量 Texas. Varian 能量 accelerators Clinic6/100s/n: 量 (Photon beam 量 with 6 議定 and Clinic1800 方法 (Photon beam 直線 with 6 輸出 18 MV, 較 beam with 單位 6, 9, 劑量 16 and 變化 MeV) were 在 for output 的 The measurement 分別 were based 的 TG-21 and ％ respectively, with ％ doses obtained 變化量 observe the 由 in the 譜 unit of 且 absorbed dose 有 The variations 的 monitor unit 與 6 MV 輸出 were within 結果 and 1.4%, 大 MV photon 電子 2.2%, and 在 average for 對 energies was 改變 The higher 的 photon energy, 的 larger the 較 suggesting that 略 photon energies 原因 more scatter 書 due to 射束 distributed energy 方面 For the 測量 beam, the 議定 in monitor 而且 were within 準確 - 2.2% 來 the average 臨床 1.84%, showing 射束 dependency with 本領 electron beam 係 The variations 平行 electron beam 納入 were slightly 電子 than the 劑量 beam, possible 會 are the 做 points in 的 protocol for 結論 beam is 議定 from earlier 需要 a more 本領 method to ) the relationship 能量 the clinical 數 quality and 等 power ratio 的 the electron 也 and the 計算 parallel ion 上 is considered 因子 the electron 書 measurements.
Conclusion: The 上 protocol is 上 campared to 議定 protocol as 容易 tables of 也 power ratios 地 mass-energy absorption 工作 are omitted 過程 the user 地 not need 單 calculate any . dosimetry factors, 依循 reduces calculation 單 For convenience, 就 encompass the 簡單 steps and 準確 equipment is 出來 In Taiwan, 臨床 is strongly 時 that national 的 standards laboratory 符合 be established 的 provide the 與 calibration factor 的 ion chambers 此籲 avoid clinical 原級 and to 廣泛 the accuracy 的 advanced radiation 劑量 and dosimetry.
目的 The purpose 目的 this paper 二 two-fold: (1)to ) specific differences 兩種 the techniques 書 TO-21 and 劑量 and (2) 上 show the 不同 of the 及 in results ) following the 電子 protocol. The 輸出 are compared 校正 different electron 電子 and chamber 及游 and Methods: 比 use three 其 ionization chambers 差異度 NE 2581, 與 15 and 詢問 35) to 的 the output 電子 electron beams.
To 使用 the values 游離腔 absorbed dose 的 water determined 游離腔 the newest 水假體 TO-51 protocol 出劑 electron beams 測 energies from 書 to 21 輸出 The incident 所得 beams are 水 the Siemens 劑 linear accelerator.
Results: 根據 results are 書 that differences 游離腔 determined absorbed 在 at Dmax 處之電子 TO-51 protocol 變化 with electron 程度 energies and 大小 chambers. The 而 of the 結果 are -1.4 ) %. The 能量 determined by 的 NE 2581 結果 is found 與 be the 與 discrepancies than 為 of the 使用 35 chamber 所 -1.4 % 結果 9 MeV. 所在 corresponding results 游離腔 the IC ) chamber are 游離腔 % at ) MeV.
Conclusions: We 游離腔 that at 不同 s in 對水 absorbed dose 校正 dmax according ( the TG-51 取得 vary with 一 characteristics of 因素 chambers. The 書 to water 基 factor, N, ( an important ) too. AAPM 許多 protocol is 的 on an 去 (air-kerma) standard 校正 multiple energy-dependent 議定 factors. The 根據 protocol is 水 on an 修正 dose to 射束 calibration factor 轉換 and an 觀念 correction factor, 之參 The quantity 量校 interest is 直接 dose to 的 in this 其基礎 protocol. The 較 TG-51 protocol 且 simpler and 經過 to understand 複 the TG-21 計算
Purpose: 目的 purpose of 目的 paper is 二 (1)to indicate ) differences in 兩種 techniques between 書 and TG-51; 劑量 (2) to 上 the magnitude 不同 the discrepancies 及 results when ) the TG-51 電子 The discrepancies 輸出 compared by 校正 electron energies 電子 chamber types.
Materials 及游 Methods: We 比 three different 其 chambers ( 差異度 2581, IC 與 and PPC 詢問 to measure 的 output of 電子 beams.
To compare 使用 values of 游離腔 dose to 的 determined according 游離腔 newest AAPM 水假體 protocol for 出劑 beams of 測 from 6 書 21 MeV. 輸出 incident electron 所得 are from 水 Siemens PRIMUS3008 劑 accelerator.
Results: The 根據 are found 書 differences in 游離腔 absorbed dose 在 Dmax by 處之電子 protocol vary 變化 electron beam 程度 and ion 大小 The discrepancies 而 the ratios 結果 -1.4 %~0.67 ) The dose 能量 by the 的 2581 chamber 結果 found to 與 the largest 與 than that 為 the PPC 使用 chamber by 所 % at 結果 MeV. The 所在 results for 游離腔 IC 15 ) are -1.26 游離腔 at 9 ) We find 游離腔 at difference 不同 in determined 對水 dose at 校正 according to ( TG-51 protocol 取得 with the 一 of ion 因素 The absorbed-dose 書 water calibration 基 N, is ( important parameter, ) AAPM TO-21 許多 is based 的 an exposed 去 standard and 校正 energy-dependent correction 議定 The TG-51 根據 is based 水 an absorbed 修正 to water 射束 factor (ND.IV) 轉換 an energy-dependent 觀念 factor, kQ. 之參 quantity of 量校 is absorbed 直接 to water 的 this TO-51 其基礎 The overall 較 protocol is 且 and easier 經過 understand than 複 TG-21 protocol.
前言 The most 骨 radiotherapy schedule 引起 palliative irradiation 最 painful bony 緩和性 remains controversial. 計劃 study compares 定論 therapeutic efficacy 目的 two radiotherapy 兩種 in the 放射 of painful 對骨 metastases.
Materials and 的 Thirty-six patients 材料 painful bony 共有 entered the 轉移 randomized trial. 疼痛 were randomized 進入 receive either 隨機 single 6Gy 隨機 (Group 1) 第一 a course 單次 30Gy in 治療 daily fractions 病人 2). Every 的 had three 放射 visits which 病人 at the 蹤 of treatment, 開始 days, and 治療 month after 三天 of the 月 The efficacy 由 theses two 的 schedules was 藉以 by each 兩種 using a 方式 questionnaire.
Results: There 效果 no significant 兩種 between the 計劃 treatment regimens 的 the degree 緩解後所能 pain relief, 時問 duration of 疼痛 relief, and 的 limitation of 口惡 due to 的 bone pain 著 nausea or 但 Three days 單次 single 6Gy 治療 treatment, the 疼痛 of pain 頻率 can be 顯著 significantly (p=0.001) ( so do 治療 month later 月 in addition, 且 patients had 疲憊 fatique than 較 treated with 放射 radiotherapy (p=0.033).
Conclusion: ( single 6Gy 對 offers a 癌症 easier, and 一次 effective way 劑量 manage metastatic 提供 pain in 骨 terminal patient 一個 a very 有效 life expectancy.
Introduction: 前言 most optimal 骨 schedule for 引起 irradiation of 最 bony metastases 緩和性 controversial. This 計劃 compares the 定論 efficacy of 目的 radiotherapy schedules 兩種 the management 放射 painful bony 對骨 and Methods: 的 patients with 材料 bony metastases 共有 the prospective 轉移 trial. They 疼痛 randomized to 進入 either a 隨機 6Gy treatment 隨機 1) or 第一 course of 單次 in ten 治療 fractions (Group 病人 Every patient 的 three follow-up 放射 which included 病人 the beginning 蹤 treatment, three 開始 and one 治療 after completion 三天 the treatment. 月 efficacy of 由 two radiotherapy 的 was evaluated 藉以 each visit 兩種 a self-scoring 方式 There were 效果 significant differences 兩種 the two 計劃 regimens in 的 degree of 緩解後所能 relief, the 時問 of pain 疼痛 and the 的 of movement 口惡 to metastatic 的 pain nor 著 or vomiting. 但 days after 單次 6Gy radiotherapy 治療 the frequency 疼痛 pain episodes 頻率 be reduced 顯著 (p=0.001) and ( do one 治療 later (p=0.003); 月 addition, these 且 had less 疲憊 than patients 較 with fractionated 放射 (p=0.033).
Conclusion: A ( 6Gy radiotherapy 對 a safer, 癌症 and more 一次 way to 劑量 metastatic bone 提供 in a 骨 patient with 一個 very short 有效 expectancy.
目的 The treatment 後 of advanced 的 carcinoma failed 的 previous TACE 通常 often unsatisfactory. 了 minimize the 治療 and late 和 effects of 減至 irradiation and 最 maximal normal 肝臟 tissue, fractionated 嘗試 radiotherapy (R/T) 次立體 used in 治療 institute.
Materials & 栓塞 Twenty-three patients 復 advanced hepatocellular 晚期 received fractionated 材料 radiotherapy with 晚期 in 22 接受 All patients 分次 assessable for 的 effects and 定位 The mean 所有 of turner 副作用 was 29% 均 1 month 治療 completion of 一個 41% at 腫瘤 months and 二個 at 3 為 In 17 月則 with elevated 十七位 alpha-fetoptein (AFP), 甲型 (88%) were ) to have 病人 in the ( month after 在 10 (59%) 第一 regression of 均 than 50% 十名 the original 更 at the 後 month after 降低 
Conclusion: For 前 with advanced 以下 carcinoma, the 末期 stereotactic radiotherapy 而言 a feasible 次立體 and deserves 治療 follow-up for 可行 and toxicity.
Purpose: 目的 treatment result 後 advanced hepatocellular 的 failed from 的 TACE is 通常 unsatisfactory. To 了 the acute 治療 late adverse 和 of liver 減至 and preserve 最 normal liver 肝臟 fractionated stereotactic 嘗試 (R/T) is 次立體 in our 治療 & Methods: 栓塞 patients with 復 hepatocellular carcinoma 晚期 fractionated stereotactic 材料 with 55Gy 晚期 22 fractions. 接受 patients were 分次 for side 的 and response.
Results: 定位 mean regression 所有 turner volume 副作用 29% at 均 month after 治療 of R?T, 一個 at 2 腫瘤 and 55% 二個 3 months. 為 17 patients 月則 elevated serum 十七位 (AFP), 15 甲型 were found ) have response 病人 the first ( after R/T, 在 (59%) had 第一 of more 均 50% of 十名 original level 更 the first 後 after R/T. 降低 For patients 前 advanced hepatocellular 以下 the fractionated 末期 radiotherapy is 而言 feasible modality 次立體 deserves further 治療 for outcome 可行 toxicity.
: To conduct : pilot study : the feasibility . 3D-conformal radiotherapy . unresectable and : advanced hepatoma.
Materials : Methods: From ( 1996 to ( 1998, 16 ) of 15 ) and 1 . with median . 62 (range . were enrolled . this pilot . All the ' have varying ' of liver ' According to ' classification, 8 ' were in ' A, 7 ' Child's B ' I in . C. Two . had diffuse ( 11 with ( lesion (＞ ( 7cm), 4 ＞ smaller nodular ＞ (＜7cm). All ) had their ) images taken ( treatment position ( contours of ＜ tumor and ＜ tissues were ) Tumor volume ) bounded with . margin bilaterally, . to 2.5cm . cranial and . direction depending . the extent . respiratory motion. . beam's eye ' representation was ' for treatment . Normal liver . maximally spared . the target . and irradiation ( administered daily ( 10 MV ) at 1.8-2Gy ) fraction. The ) volume of . liver irradiated . 50% of : dose or : (% VNLD50) ( determine total ( given.
Results: Eight ) had % ) less than . and the . dose given ( 60.1Gy (range ( There were ( PR (partial ) 3 SD ) disease), 1 ( (complete response) ( 1 PD ) disease). There ) two patients ( of fatal ( hepatitis. Six ) were in ) group having ( to 66 ( VNLDSO and ) dose was ) (range 40-64Gy). ) were 4 . and 2 . Two patients . from non-fatal . hepatitis and ( patient died ( fatal hepatitis. ) patients had ) greater than . One was . and another . had PD. . patient died . fatal radiation . Median follow-up . was 7 . Overall response . was 25%. . survival was . months (range . Six-month survival . was 50% . that of . 2-month was . Selected cases . hepatoma that . %VNLDSO under ( can be'considered ( 3D-conformal radiotherapy ) the correlation ) radiation dose . radiation induced . damage still . further investigation. . cases with : VNLD50 greater : 66, there ' no clinical ' of performing . radiotherapy.
Purpose: : conduct a : study on : feasibility of . radiotherapy on . and unembolizable : hepatoma.
Materials and : From November ( to March ( 16 patients ) 15 males ) 1 female . median age . (range 26-80) . enrolled in . pilot study. . the patients ' varying degree ' liver cirrhosis. ' to Child's ' 8 patients ' in Child' ' 7 in ' B and ' in Child's . Two patients . diffuse disease, ( with massive-nodular ( (＞ = ( 4 with ＞ nodular lesion ＞ All patients ) their CT ) taken at ( position and ( of the ＜ and normal ＜ were defined. ) volume was ) with 2cm . bilaterally, 2.0 . 2.5cm in . and caudal . depending on . extent of . motion. The . eye view ' was used ' treatment planning. . liver was . spared outside . target volume . irradiation was ( daily using ( MV X-rays ) 1.8-2Gy per ) The percent ) of normal . irradiated by . of target : or greater : VNLD50) would ( total dose ( Eight patients ) % VNLD50 ) than 40 . the median . given was ( (range 49-68Gy). ( were 3 ( (partial response), ) SD (stable ) 1 CR ( response) and ( PD (progressive ) There were ) patients died ( fatal radiation ( Six patients ) in the ) having 33 ( 66 % ( and median ) was 49.4Gy ) 40-64Gy). There ) 4 SD . 2 PD. . patients suffered . non-fatal radiation . and 1 ( died of ( hepatitis. Two ) had %VNLD50 ) than 66. . was SD . another one . PD. One . died of . radiation hepatitis. . follow-up time . 7 months. . response rate . 25%. Median . was 7 . (range 1-16). . survival rate . 50% and . of 1 . was 37.5%.
Conclusion: . cases of . that has . under 40 ( be'considered for ( radiotherapy but ) correlation of ) dose and . induced liver . still need . investigation. For . with % : greater than : there is ' clinical benefit ' performing 3D-oonformal .
目的 Using CT-based 斷層 as an 作為 for breast 放射 radiotherapy to 前 the accuracy 攝影 treatment and 治療 to decrease 能 rate of 肺 fibrosis.
Materials and 與 From July 年 to January 至民國 we retrospectively 以 95 patients 接受 received full 治療 radiotherapy with 並 follow-up at 蹤 department. The 病患 age of 對象 patients was 人 years old, 為 the median 追 interval was 時 months. A 個 was devised 的 simulate patients 先以 breast cancer 模擬 the actual 接受 position by 的 a diagnostic 掃 spiral scanner 並將 a workstation 工作站 virtual simulation. 擬計 was desired 出切線 produce non-divergent 確定 beams through 於 lung at 室 matching line 模擬 tangential and 實際 fields. Bach 並訂 was immobilized 治療 an Alpha 完成 cast. Radio-opaque 治療 were placed 後 the margins 定期 the fields 胸部 by simulation 狀況 CT scan 肺 performed. The 情形 set was 電腦 to the 系統 After reconstruction 所有 all the 照野 we performed 接受 simulation from 的 When treatment 與 were decided, 化做 would resimulate 經過 before treatment 後 Patients received 片 follow-up after 部位 of radiotherapy. 對 X-ray films 肺纖維化 taken to ( lung metastasis 局部 fibrosis while 有 examination and ( CT were 肺 to evaluate 例 recurrence.
Results: All 其電腦 chest X-ray 圖上 were rechecked 垂直 5 patients ) with lung 為 were noted. 照野 to the 肺部 records and 為 images, local 其 was noted 的 3 patients 佔 Among the 之 patients with 平均 fibrosis, the 局部 greatest perpendicular 病患 (GPD) measured 平均 the CT 切線 was 1.75cm, 的 average irradiated 平均 volume of 而 tangential fields 的 122.25 mlthat 佔 7% of 肺體積 ipsilateral lung 平均 For the 以電腦 patients with 模擬 recurrence, the 基礎 GPD was 病患 the average 可以 lung volume 計畫 the tangential 準確度 was 155.48 傳統 and the 精確 irradiated lung 原因 was 6.12% 能 the ipsilateral 掌握 Using CT-based 的 as an 如 for breast 淋巴 radiation treatment 發腫瘤 more accurate 更能 traditional treatment 要 It provided 部位 the accurate 的 between the 我們 of the 可以 and critical 較 We decrease 以提 lung volume 局部 hope to 減少 the chance 以 lung fibrosis.
Purpose: 目的 CT-based simulation 斷層 an aid 作為 breast cancer 放射 to increase 前 accuracy of 攝影 and hope 治療 decrease the 能 of lung 肺 and Methods: 與 July 1994 年 January 1999, 至民國 retrospectively analyzed 以 patients who 接受 full course 治療 with regular 並 at our 蹤 The average 病患 of the 對象 was 49 人 old, and 為 median follow-up 追 was 26.7 時 A method 個 devised to 的 patients with 先以 cancer in 模擬 actual treatment 接受 by using 的 diagnostic CT 掃 scanner and 並將 workstation for 工作站 simulation. It 擬計 desired to 出切線 non-divergent tangential 確定 through the 於 at the 室 line for 模擬 and supraclavicular 實際 Bach patient 並訂 immobilized in 治療 Alpha Cradle 完成 Radio-opaque markers 治療 placed on 後 margins of 定期 fields decided 胸部 simulation and 狀況 scan was 肺 The data 情形 was transferred 電腦 the workstation. 系統 reconstruction of 所有 the images, 照野 performed virtual 接受 from computer. 的 treatment parameters 與 decided, we 化做 resimulate patient 經過 treatment started. 後 received regular 片 after completion 部位 radiotherapy. Chest 對 films were 肺纖維化 to detect ( metastasis and 局部 while physical 有 and chest ( were performed 肺 evaluate local 例 All the 其電腦 X-ray films 圖上 rechecked and 垂直 patients (5.26%) ) lung fibrosis 為 noted. According 照野 the chart 肺部 and CT 為 local recurrence 其 noted in 的 patients (3.16%). 佔 the 5 之 with lung 平均 the average 局部 perpendicular distance 病患 measured from 平均 CT image 切線 1.75cm, the 的 irradiated lung 平均 of the 而 fields was 的 mlthat occupied 佔 of the 肺體積 lung volume. 平均 the 3 以電腦 with local 模擬 the average 基礎 was 1.5cm, 病患 average irradiated 可以 volume within 計畫 tangential fields 準確度 155.48 ml, 傳統 the average 精確 lung volume 原因 6.12% of 能 ipsilateral lung.
Conclusion: 掌握 CT-based simulation 的 an aid 如 breast cancer 淋巴 treatment was 發腫瘤 accurate than 更能 treatment planning. 要 provided us 部位 accurate relationship 的 the position 我們 the target 可以 critical organs. 較 decrease irradiated 以提 volume and 局部 to reduce 減少 chance of 以 fibrosis.
目的 This study 研究 the usefulness 過手術 serial CEA, 治療 CA153 and 以及 modalities in 的 levels for 偵測 recurrence in 中 with primary 以及 cancer after 單獨 chemotherapy, radiotherapy 合 hormone therapy.
Materials 與 Methods: CEA, 復 and CA153 材料 serum determinations 我們 performed on 乳癌 patients (median 平均 48.9 months) 個 primary breast 系列 Within the 血液 there were 追 clinically diagnosed 程 of relapse 個 follow- up. 的 among groups 我們 cut-off value, 了 dynamic changes 臨界值 20% and 變化 were done.
Results: 方法 sensitivity and 預測 determined for 發 tumor markers 優劣點 cutoff levels 臨界值 (for CEA)27.91%, 較 (TPA) 63.37%, 的 and (CM 專一性 31.40%, 92.50%, ( Utilizing 20% ) change methods, ) TPA and 藉由 showed sensitivities 變化 59.30%, 55.23% 所 17.44%, and 敏感性 of 18.75%, 為 and 99.38%, ( In this ( metastatic patients 在 classified into 實驗 categories of 的 viscera, bones 分類 locoregional. Tumor 以及 sensitivity was 發等 related to 指數 site of 和 the lowest 發地點 was found 好 locoregional relapse 一般 the highest 對 in patients 復 visceral metastasis, 敏感性 was more 但 than CEA 臟器 monitoring breast 較 recurrence under 使用 methods but 方法 results were 有 when serum 的 was evaluated 若 dynamic changes. 動態 single markers, 則兩者 presented the 相反 sensitivity in 單一腫瘤 fields under 說 methods, but 的 surpassed by 於 under dynamic 轉移 for the 都 of visceral 最好 Unlike the 但 categories, when 連續 TPA values 則在 determined by 處 changes, the 的 sensitivity was 指數 for visceral 通常 detection. Significant 了 predicted new 後 or tumor 發現 after complete 複 The combined 和 of CEA, 有助 and CA153 預測 the overall sensitivity.
Purpose: 目的 study evaluates 研究 usefulness of 過手術 CEA, TPA, 治療 and combined 以及 in serum 的 for screening 偵測 in patients 中 primary breast 以及 after surgery, 單獨 radiotherapy and 合 therapy.
Materials and 與 CEA, TPA, 復 CA153 serial 材料 determinations were 我們 on 332 乳癌 (median follow-up: 平均 months) with 個 breast cancer. 系列 the group, 血液 were 195 追 diagnosed episodes 程 relapse during 個 up. Comparison 的 groups by 我們 value, and 了 changes of 臨界值 and 30% 變化 done.
Results: The 方法 and specificity, 預測 for circulating 發 markers by 優劣點 levels were 臨界值 CEA)27.91%, 94.38%; 較 63.37%, 53.13%; 的 (CM 53) 專一性 92.50%, respectively. ( 20% dynamic ) methods, CEA, ) and CA1S3 藉由 sensitivities of 變化 55.23% and 所 and specificities 敏感性 18.75%, 38.13% 為 99.38%, respectively.
Conclusions: ( this study, ( patients were 在 into three 實驗 of sites: 的 bones and 分類 Tumor marker 以及 was clearly 發等 to the 指數 of recurrence; 和 lowest sensitivity 發地點 found in 好 relapse and 一般 highest was 對 patients with 復 metastasis, CA153 敏感性 more sensitive 但 CEA in 臟器 breast cancer 較 under cut-off 使用 but the 方法 were reversed 有 serum concentration 的 evaluated by 若 changes. For 動態 markers, TPA 則兩者 the best 相反 in all 單一腫瘤 under cut-off 說 but was 的 by CEA 於 dynamic changes 轉移 the detection 都 visceral metastasis. 最好 the other 但 when serum 連續 values were 則在 by dynamic 處 the highest 的 was obtained 指數 visceral metastasis 通常 Significant elevation 了 new recurrence 後 tumor regrowth 發現 complete remission. 複 combined use 和 CEA, TPA, 有助 CA153 increased 預測 overall sensitivity.
目的 To evaluate 並討論 discuss the 醫院 therapeutic results 眼病 Graves' ophthamopathy 治療 at National 材料 University Hospital 方法 & Methods: 年 retrospective study 共有 to review 格雷夫 16 patients 之 Graves' ophthalmopathy 於 treated with 醫院 therapy at 治療 Taiwan University 位 from 1992 女性 1997. There 自 Smen and 至 women, aged 年齡 14 to 歲 years old, 以 a mean 突出 of 42.9 症狀 old. Most 運動 the patients 為 with soft 均 signs, eye 單次 impairment and 總劑 Patients received 放射 in 2Gy 治療 fraction to 所有 that included 部位 entire area 由 abnormality and 延伸 extended from 床突 posterior globe ( the anterior 的 process.
Results: Sixty-three 接受 (10/16) of 後 patients responded 療效 to radiotherapy. 症狀 was 62.5% 改善 of the ( presenting with 突出 signs demonstrated 改善 improvement. Patients ) proptosis improved 運動 treatment was 的 (5/6), respectively. ( 40.0% (4/10) 有 the patients 的 improvement in 在 restriction of 上 movement. Improvement 結論 visual acuity 總劑 found in 放射 (3/5) of 可 patients.
Conclusion: Radiotherapy 用 a dosage 格雷夫 20Gy is 眼病 in preventing 加劇 of active 減少類 ophthalmopathy in 治療 with Graves' 所帶 and eliminates 之 side effects 司氏 with protracted 放射 of corticosteroid. 的 is recommended 類 radiotherapy can 療法 considered to 病患 patients who 使用 after steroid 固醇 or have 者 contraindication to 治療 Surgical management 減壓 as orbit 於 may reserved 治療 patients who 突出 progressing or 進展 proptosis after 之 therapy.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate and 並討論 the radietion 醫院 results of 眼病 ophthamopathy treated 治療 National Taiwan 材料 Hospital (NTUH).
Materials 方法 Methods: This 年 study was 共有 review the 格雷夫 patients with 之 ophthalmopathy whom 於 with radiation 醫院 at National 治療 University Hospital 位 1992 to 女性 There were 自 and 8 至 aged from 年齡 to 63 歲 old, with 以 mean age 突出 42.9 years 症狀 Most of 運動 patients presented 為 soft tissue 均 eye muscle 單次 and proptosis. 總劑 received 20Gy 放射 2Gy per 治療 to volume 所有 included the 部位 area of 由 and usually 延伸 from the 床突 globe to ( anterior clinoids 的 Sixty-three percent 接受 of the 後 responded successfully 療效 radiotherapy. There 症狀 62.5% (10/16) 改善 the patients ( with these 突出 demonstrated significant 改善 Patients with ) improved after 運動 was 83.3% 的 respectively. Only ( (4/10) of 有 patients showed 的 in the 在 of eye 上 Improvement of 結論 acuity was 總劑 in 60.0% 放射 of the 可 Radiotherapy with 用 dosage of 格雷夫 is effective 眼病 preventing exacerbation 加劇 active inflammatory 減少類 in patients 治療 Graves' disease 所帶 eliminates the 之 effects associated 司氏 protracted use 放射 corticosteroid. It 的 recommended that 類 can be 療法 to treat 病患 who fail 使用 steroid administration 固醇 have a 者 to steroid. 治療 management such 減壓 orbit decompression 於 reserved for 治療 who have 突出 or disabling 進展 after radiation 之
: This study : designed to : an understanding : the degree : which cancer : choose to : to alternative . methods, to . out what . play a . in this . and to . medical personnel . open their . to the . and educational . of this . towards alternative . methods. Consequently, . should lead . a more . approach to . patients to . to scientific . treatment and ' their familiarity ' so that ' can take ' of both ' of treatment ' carried out . and Methods . study was . out at . Linkou Chang . Memorial Hospital . November 1, . to November . 1999. Eight . and seventy-two . were entered . the study, . cancer patients . radiotherapy at . hospital's Radiation . Department. Admission . based on . questionnaire that . to be . in by . patient, in . they were . by senior . staff of . Radiation Oncology . This questionnaire . to be . in twice, . first time . the first . during radiotherapy . the second . within 6 . after completion . the treatment.
Results . were various . of alternative . that the . patients received . or during . radiotherapy course, . folk recipe, . exercises, massage, . food. Among . various types . alternative treatments, . alternative treatments . most significantly . during radiotherapy. . it was ' that the ' patients thought ' was closely ' with cancer ' Of those ' who turned ( alternative treatment ( either before ( during radiotherapy, ( would choose ( than one ( but mostly ＜ the form ＜ popular treatment ＜ primarily being ＜ administering of ＜ herbs. One ＜ sixty and ) patients would ) such treatments ) other patients. ) or not ) treatment methods ) effective directly ) the patient's . to recommend . treatments to . patients (p＜0.0001). . local radiotherapy, . majority of . studied patients . design health . programs themselves . modify their . styles.
Conclusion: The . of the . patients to : the standard : such as : did not : with the : for them : turn to . treatments. Although . alternative treatments . not recommended, . is not . to prohibit . use. Considering . vast cost . to alternative . must result . the medical . nursing staff . help the . select their . treatments seriously . order to . to economic . and psychophysical . Further large-scale . investigations are . to study . alternative treatments . influence the . of the . standard treatments or not.
Purpose: : study was : to gain : understanding of : degree to : cancer patients : to turn : alternative treatment . to find . what factors . a role . this preference, . to encourage . personnel to . their mind . the ergonomic . educational aspects . this tendency . alternative treatment . Consequently, this . lead to . more positive . to convincing . to submit . scientific medical . and increase ' familiarity therewith, ' that they ' take advantage ' both types ' treatment when ' out simultaneously.
Materials . Methods The . was carried . at the . Chang Sung . Hospital from . 1, 1997 . November 30, . Eight hundreds . seventy-two patients . entered in . study, being . patients undergoing . at the . Radiation Oncology . Admission was . on a . that had . be filled . by each . in which . were assisted . senior nursing . of the . Oncology Department. . questionnaire had . be filled . twice, the . time within . first week . radiotherapy and . second time . 6 months . completion of . treatment.
Results There . various types . alternative treatments . the studied . received before . during the . course, including . recipe, breathing . massage, vegetarian . Among the . types of . treatments, diet . treatments were . significantly increased . radiotherapy. Therefore, . was understood ' the cancer ' thought diet ' closely associated ' cancer diseases. ' those patients ' turned to ( treatment methods ( before or ( radiotherapy, most ( choose more ( one alternative, ( mostly in ＜ form of ＜ treatment methods ＜ being the ＜ of medicinal ＜ One hundred ＜ and one ) would recommend ) treatments to ) patients. Whether ) not alternative ) methods were ) directly influenced ) patient's inclination . recommend such . to other . (p＜0.0001). After . radiotherapy, the . of the . patients would . health care . themselves and . their life . The intent . the cancer . to accept : standard treatments : as radiotherapy : not conflict : the intent : them to : to alternative . Although taking . treatments is . recommended, it . not practical . prohibit their . Considering the . cost turning . alternative treatments . result in, . medical and . staff should . the patients . their alternative . seriously in . to lead . economic difficulties . psychophysical affliction. . large-scale clinical . are needed . study whether . treatments would . the effectiveness . the recommended . treatments or not.
: The percentage : dose of : and enhanced . wedge fields . Varian CL-2100 . linear accelerators . measured. According : the variation : the PDD . PDD modification . of both . wedges will . observed and . and Methods: . PDD curves . open and × wedged fields × measured with × 3D water × equipped with × cc Scanditronix × ionization chamber. × PDD values × enhanced dynamic ^ fields were ^ with Keithley . dosimeter connected . Wellhofer Focus . parallel plate ° chamber. The ° energies are ° and 10 ° The measured ° sizes are ° 10×10, 15×15, ° The wedge ° are 15°, . 45° and . The depths . surface, the . 5, 10, . 20cm. Each ' were normalized ' it's own ( max) to ( the PDD ) The beam ) effect of . wedged field . inverse to : energy and : size. But . when the . and wedge . increased. The . PDD increment . is located ( 6 MV, ( field size, ) wedge angle ) depth equal × 20cm. The × modification effect ^ enhanced dynamic ^ field was ° with beam ° but increased ° the field . the depth . the wedge . increased. The . PDD increment ( is located ( 6MV, 20×20cm^2 ) size, 60° ) angle and × equal to × The PDD ^ effect of ^ dynamic wedged ^ are really ° The effect ° the physical . is due . the filtering : of the : material. The . from the . dynamic wedge . due to . dose-gradient effect.
Purpose: : percentage depth : of physical : enhanced dynamic . fields of . CL-2100 CD . accelerators were . According to : variation of : PDD values, . modification effect . both type . will be . and discussed.
Materials . Methods: The . curves of . and physical × fields were × with Nucletron × water phantom × with 0.12 × Scanditronix RK × chamber. The × values of × dynamic wedged ^ were measured ^ Keithley 35040 . connected to . Focus PPC-35 . plate ionization ° The beam ° are 6 ° 10 MV. ° measured field ° are 5×5, ° 15×15, 20×20cm^2. ° wedge angles ° 15°, 30°, . and 60°. . depths are . the dm, . 10, 15, . Each value ' normalized to ' own D(subscript ( to compare ( PDD variation.
Results: ) beam hardening ) of physical . field were . to beam : and field : But increase . the depth . wedge angle . The maximum . increment (2.23%) . located at ( MV, 5×5cm^2 ( size, 60° ) angle and ) equal to × The PDD × effect of ^ dynamic wedged ^ was inverse ° beam energy, ° increased when ° field size, . depth and . wedge angle . The maximum . increment (1.14%) ( located at ( 20×20cm^2 field ) 60° wedge ) and depth × to 20cm.
Conclusions: × PDD modification ^ of enhanced ^ wedged field ^ really exist. ° effect from ° physical wedge . due to . filtering effect : the wedge : The effect . the enhanced . wedge is . to the . effect.
目的 The transmission 加速器 of virtual 濾器 and physical 在 were measured 對 different field 的 for a 以 PRIMUS 3008 的 accelerator to 應用 and analyze 因素 of virtual 以 and Methci4.: 於 Wellhöfer 1C15, × cc chamber 將 setup on 的 chamber frame 調至 Wellhöfer water 中心 (48×48×40 cm^3). 公分 distance between ( source and 測量 surface of 濾器 is 100 ° Transmission factors 角度 water were 由 at 5cm × (6 MV) 出劑 10cm depth 實體 MV) of 在 central axis 情況 four wedge 的 (15°, 30°, 實體 60°) at 楔型 sizes ranging 因子 4.0 to 的 cm. Results 楔型 transmission factors 因子 physical wedges 上升 slowly as 增加率 size increase. 且 mean increment 楔型 4% and 穿透 maximum increment 虛擬式 6%. However, 角度 transmission factors 平均分 virtual wedges 此 almost constant 濾器 for all 其 wedge angles. 隨著 mean increment 緩慢 1.7%, and 增加率 maximum increment 但 3%.
Conclusion Transmission 差上 of all 範圍 wedges are 虛擬式 constant It 因子 that the 數值 without a 在 is almost 軸 to the 的 with a 等 at the 時 axis. This 出值 us the 臨床 factors are 對 the primary 之 factor on 佔 applications of 很小 wedge.
Purpose: 目的 transmission factors 加速器 virtual wedges 濾器 physical wedges 在 measured on 對 field sizes 的 a Siemens 以 3008 linear 的 to assess 應用 analyze characteristics 因素 virtual wedges.
Materials 以 Methci4.: The 於 1C15, 0.13 × chamber was 將 on the 的 frame of 調至 water phantom 中心 cm^3). The 公分 between the ( and the 測量 of water 濾器 100 cm. ° factors in 角度 were measured 由 5cm depth × MV) and 出劑 depth (15 實體 of the 在 axis for 情況 wedge angles 的 30°, 45°, 實體 at field 楔型 ranging from 因子 to 25.0 的 Results The 楔型 factors of 因子 wedges increase 上升 as filed 增加率 increase. The 且 increment is 楔型 and the 穿透 increment is 虛擬式 However, the 角度 factors of 平均分 wedges remain 此 constant (1.0) 濾器 all the 其 angles. The 隨著 increment is 緩慢 and the 增加率 increment is 但 Transmission factors 差上 all virtual 範圍 are almost 虛擬式 It means 因子 the output 數值 a wedge 在 almost equal 軸 the output 的 a wedge 等 the central 時 This tells 出值 the transmission 臨床 are not 對 primary influence 之 on clinical 佔 of virtual 很小
目的 In this 將 we will 多功能 the technique 性腦 of mounting 架 new, versatile 之技術 In addition, 的 will research 以及 reproducibility of 架重 mounting of 後 and Methods: 治療 stereoadapter5000 is 確性 non-invasive frame 與 of reinforced 侵入 and aluminum 架為 It is 塑膠 to patient's 假影 by means 鋁 two ear 定位 and nasion 兩側 The tight 鼻 of this 器 is modify 病患 a threaded ‘ at the 之 support, two 由 cases joined 支持 lateral triangle 螺旋 to the 樑 support arm, 臂 two ones 物件 the connector 齒 to the 連接 triangle components. 與 achieve maximum 物件 and confidence 齒 the stereoadapter, 調整 should repeat 本文 mounting procedure 健康 times to 進行 familiar with 瞭解 the features 固定 the frame. 的 the reproducibility 花費 repeat fixations 以及 the frame 後 the head 關於再 tested in 研究 healthy volunteers. 自願者 differences in 戴 of the 架 were measured.
Results: 每次 mountings of 於 frame to 參考點 head took 最後以 mm. All 量 tolerated well 結果 three mountings 侵入 the frame. 架 complaints were 自願者 pressure on 時 bridge of 分鐘 nose and 三次 the external 容忍度 canal and 嚴重 hear well 適感 to the 不舒 of the 鼻 by the 與 plugs. About 壓迫 of repeat 於 of this 掩蔽 the differences 有 the position 不 the blocks 的 the right 關於再 was 0.74 研究 (SD 0.47 各有 range 1.5 右側 and on 異 left side 最大 0.89 mm 左側 0.24 mm, 標準 1.25).
Conclusion: This 差異 is easy 立體 quick to 架為 on the 侵入 head, and 容易 of repeated 的 is very 病患 So not 頭部 to single 複 the stereotactic 現性 can be 對 according to 定位 principles, in 侷 sessions. In 於 to combine 治療 CT and 可 system, this 生物 is also 好 for open 治療 surgery.
Purpose: 目的 this study, 將 will describe 多功能 technique details 性腦 mounting the 架 versatile stereoadapter. 之技術 addition, we 的 research the 以及 of repeated 架重 of that.
Materials 後 Methods: The 治療 is a 確性 frame made 與 reinforced plastic 侵入 aluminum alloy. 架為 is mounted 塑膠 patient's head 假影 means of 鋁 ear plugs 定位 nasion support. 兩側 tight intensity 鼻 this frame 器 modify by 病患 threaded screw ‘ the nasion 之 two cogwheel 由 joined the 支持 triangle components 螺旋 the nasion 樑 arm, and 臂 ones joined 物件 connector plate 齒 the lateral 連接 components. To 與 maximum accuracy 物件 confidence with 齒 stereoadapter, we 調整 repeat the 本文 procedure several 健康 to become 進行 with all 瞭解 features of 固定 frame. Besides, 的 reproducibility of 花費 fixations of 以及 frame to 後 head was 關於再 in 7 研究 volunteers. The 自願者 in location 戴 the marking 架 measured.
Results: The 每次 of the 於 to the 參考點 took 3 最後以 All subjects 量 well the 結果 mountings of 侵入 frame. Some 架 were unpleasant 自願者 on the 時 of the 分鐘 and on 三次 external auditory 容忍度 and not 嚴重 well due 適感 the occlusion 不舒 the canal 鼻 the ear 與 About reproducibility 壓迫 repeat fixation 於 this frame, 掩蔽 differences in 有 position of 不 blocks on 的 right side 關於再 0.74 mm 研究 0.47 mm, 各有 1.5 mm), 右側 on the 異 side was 最大 mm (SD 左側 mm, range 標準 This stereoadapter 差異 easy and 立體 to mount 架為 the patient's 侵入 and reproducibility 容易 repeated mountings 的 very 4gh. 病患 not limited 頭部 single session, 複 stereotactic irradiation 現性 be fractionated, 對 to radidbiological 定位 in several 侷 In addition 於 combine with 治療 and MRI 可 this frame 生物 also suitable 好 open stereotactic 治療
: The radioactive : micron-sized particles : were prepared ( internal radiotherapy ( hepatoma. The ( of hydroxyapatite ) particles (HMP) ) the cytotoxicity ) RHMP to . hepatoma cells . also studied.
Materials . Methods: The ( were synthesized ( biocompatible hydroxyapatite ( neutron irradiated ) Tsing-Hua open ) reactor. Human . HepG2 cell . was employed . in-vitro evaluation.
Results: : main nuclide : the RHMP : P-32. Cell . tested reveals . hepatoma cells . high affinity . HMP. Tested . 70-100μm HMR . hepatoma cells : and surrounded : particles within . days. Testing . sub-micron HMP, . particles were . by hepatoma . Cells treated . higher dosages μ RHMP showed μ surviving fraction, μ cells seemed . have less . changes. Meanwhile, . were treated . lower dosages, . were observed . the RHMP . be endocytosised . hepatoma cells.
Conclusion: . evaluation reveals . the RHMP . highly cytotoxic : are an : internal radio-therapeutic : for hepatoma. . results may . major clinical . in the . of future . in internal radiotherapy.
Purpose: : radioactive hydroxyapatite : particles (RHMP) : prepared for ( radiotherapy of ( The interaction ( hydroxyapatite micron-sized ) (HMP) and ) cytotoxicity of ) to the . cells were . studied.
Materials and . The RHMP ( synthesized using ( hydroxyapatite and ( irradiated in ) open pool ) Human hepatoma . cell line . employed for . evaluation.
Results: The : nuclide of : RHMP is : Cell culture . reveals that . cells have . affinity to . Tested with . HMR the . cells climbed : surrounded the : within 3 . Testing with . HMP, the . were endocytosised . hepatoma cells. . treated with . dosages of μ showed lower μ fraction, and μ seemed to . less morphological . Meanwhile, cells . treated with . dosages, changes . observed and . RHMP could . endocytosised by . cells.
Conclusion: In-vitro . reveals that . RHMP are . cytotoxic and : an effective : radio-therapeutic agent : hepatoma. These . may have . clinical significance . the development . future research . internal radiotherapy.
目的 To develop 與 accurate and 非常 measurement technique 皮膚 the pig 精確 micro-colonies as 具有 ideal model 的豬 for radiation 集落 on the 以 and Methods: 放射 male pigs 之 about 30kg 模式 kept in 方法 separate cage 約 and quarantined 之 at least 豬 weeks before 適應 All animals 周 tattooed on 時 left flank 腹面 Indian ink 方法 size of 公分 cm and 每 gap of 隔 between the 下 Prior to 吸入 the animals 照射 anaesthetized with 電子 gas mixture. 照射 dose was 天起 at 22.5, 計 and 27.5Gy 測定 3MeV electrons. 程度 14 days △ irradiation, a 高峰 was used 後 determined the 皮膚 of erythema, 中間 skin samples 組織 taken on 水解 next day 真皮 erythema reached 含 maximum. Only 後 skin samples 的 cutted, fixed, 予以 stained, connective 利用光 removed, epidermal 計數 prepared and 大 for final 細胞 counting under 數目 microscope. Furthermore, 求得 dose..response curve 曲線 D(subscript 0) 下標 were obtained.
Results: 結果 maximum AR 計所測 were between 可見 to 8, 反應 peak value △ lasts for 至 2 days. 此 the maximum 存在 value appeared 多數豬 days 18 值 21. The 約介 of the 後 epidermal microcolonies 本技術 to have 集落 nuclear stain, 現出 and compact 染色 arrangement with 規則 mitotic cells, 緊密 forms strong 分裂 to the 與 cells. The 形成 o) value 比 from the 容易 curve was 之 The importance ( pig skin 值為 radiation research 隻 known for 線 years by 重要性 experts. However, 於 development of 時 optimal assay 之 has to 必須 on the 劑量 combination of 適合 accuracy of 時機 dose delivery, 之 sampling time, 及 fixation, staining 之 epidermal sheet 做 etc. The 組合 results proved 良好 superiority and 鑑定 in terms 結果 the assay 之 We believe 實用陸 this technique 於 draw much 晚期 to the 傷害 who study 必將 and late 的 injury on 應用 skin.
Purpose: 目的 develop an 與 and quantitative 非常 technique of 皮膚 pig epidermal 精確 as an 具有 model system 的豬 radiation research 集落 the skin.
Materials 以 Methods: White 放射 pigs weighing 之 30kg were 模式 in a 方法 cage indoors 約 quarantined for 之 least 2 豬 before irradiation. 適應 animals were 周 on the 時 flank with 腹面 ink at 方法 of 4×4 公分 and a 每 of 5cm 隔 the fields. 下 to irradiation 吸入 animals were 照射 with a 電子 mixture. Radiation 照射 was given 天起 22.5, 25.0 計 27.5Gy using 測定 electrons. At 程度 days after △ a chromometer 高峰 used to 後 the degree 皮膚 erythema, the 中間 samples were 組織 on the 水解 day after 真皮 reached the 含 Only 2×2cm 後 samples were 的 fixed, hydrolysed, 予以 connective tissues 利用光 epidermal sheets 計數 and mounted 大 final colony 細胞 under the 數目 Furthermore, a 求得 curve and 曲線 0) value 下標 obtained.
Results: The 結果 AR value 計所測 between 5 可見 8, this 反應 value only △ for about 至 days. Normally 此 maximum SE 存在 appeared between 多數豬 18 to 值 The pattern 約介 the present 後 microcolonies appears 本技術 have dark 集落 stain, regular 現出 compact cellular 染色 with few 規則 cells, which 緊密 strong contrast 分裂 the surrounding 與 The D(subscript 形成 value deduced 比 the surviving 容易 was 3.05±0.38Gy.
Conclusions: 之 importance of ( skin in 值為 research is 隻 for many 線 by many 重要性 However, the 於 of an 時 assay system 之 to rely 必須 the best 劑量 of the 適合 of radiation 時機 delivery, optimal 之 time, skin 及 staining and 之 sheet separation 做 The present 組合 proved it's 良好 and applicability 鑑定 terms of 結果 assay technique. 之 believe that 實用陸 technique will 於 much attention 晚期 the people 傷害 study early 必將 late radiation 的 on the 應用
目的 Arylamine N-acetylation 化合物 by the 醯 acetyltransferase (NAT) 基乙 be an 發癌 causative factor 本 the initiation 探討 cancer. Most 膠質 have been 中 to react 材料 cellular DNA 取 form covalent 膠質 adducts. Arylamine-DNA 細胞 formation have 酼 correlated with 酶 carcinogenic effect 基 heterocyclic aromatic [ 2-AF-DNA formation ) rat glial 再 tumor cell 層析儀 was investigated.
Materials 形成 Methods: 2-aminofluorene-ONA ( adducts formation 結果 rat glial 膠質 tumor cell 細胞 was investigated 酼 γ-[(superscript 32)p]-dATP 酵素 HPLC, using 存在 fluorene as 濃度 2-AF-DNA adducts 受質 in rat 結論 cultured tumor 大白鼠 with 30uM 培養 60uM AF 中 0.48±0.16 and 轉 DNA, respectively.
Conclusion: 可將 results indicate 與 rat glial 去 tumor cells 酶 AF to 研究 metabolite able 探討 bind covalently 報告 DNA, and 一步 induced dose-dependent 確認
Purpose: 目的 N-acetylation capacity 化合物 the N- 醯 (NAT) may 基乙 an important 發癌 factor in 本 initiation of 探討 Most carcinogens 膠質 been demonstrated 中 react with 材料 DNA to 取 covalent DNA 膠質 Arylamine-DNA adducts 細胞 have been 酼 with the 酶 effect of 基 aromatic amines. [ formation in ) glial cultured 再 cell line 層析儀 investigated.
Materials and 形成 2-aminofluorene-ONA (2-AF-DNA) ( formation in 結果 glial cultured 膠質 cell line 細胞 investigated by 酼 32)p]-dATP and 酵素 using 2-amino- 存在 as substrates.
Results: 濃度 adducts formation 受質 rat glial 結論 tumor cell 大白鼠 30uM and 培養 AF were 中 and 0.70±0.12pmol/mg 轉 respectively.
Conclusion: The 可將 indicate that 與 glial cultured 去 cells activate 酶 to a 研究 able to 探討 covalently with 報告 and also 一步 dose-dependent effect.
: To analyze : treatment results . prognostic factors : rectal cancer : receiving postoperative ( after radical ) and Methods: ) October 1987 . August 1997, . patients with . II or . (AJCC1997) rectal . were treated . complete surgical : and postoperative ( pelvic irradiation ( chemotherapy. The ) was delivered ( 10 or ( MV X-ray ) 5 days ( week at ( to 2Gy ) fraction. Total ( ranged from ) to 60Gy. ) patients had . least 2 ( of follow-up.
Results: ( 5-year local Ⅱ rate (LC), . survival rate . distant metastasis-free Ⅲ (DMF) and ) survival rate ) for the ( patients were . 43%, 46% . 35%, respectively. ) univariate analysis, ( stage (Ⅱ ( Ⅲ), T . (T3 vs. . N stage . vs. N1 ) N2) and ( CEA (＜5 ( ≥5ng/ml) were ＜ significant prognostic . in LC, ≥ DMF and ≥ In multivariate ) the N . was the . statistically significant ( of LC ) OS (p=0.0014), ) (p=0.0012) and ( (p=0.0010).
Conclusion: N ) (the number ) involved nodes) ( the most ) prognostic factor ) rectal cancer ( receiving postoperative ) alone. Patients ) more than . involved nodes : significantly poor : outcome. The ( adjuvant treatment ) rectal cancer ) still controversial. . investigation of . treatment modalities . needed.
Purpose: : analyze the : results and . factors in : cancer patients : postoperative radiotherapy ( radical resection.
Materials ) Methods: From ) 1987 through . 1997, ninety-five . with stage . or III . rectal cancer . treated with . surgical resection : postoperative adjuvant ( irradiation without ( The radiation ) delivered with ( or 15 ( X-ray given ) days per ( at 1.8 ( 2Gy per ) Total doses ( from 52 ) 60Gy. All ) had at . 2 years ( follow-up.
Results: The ( local control Ⅱ (LC), overall . rate (OS), . metastasis-free rate Ⅲ and disease-free ) rate (DFS) ) the 95 ( were 49%, . 46% and . respectively. In ) analysis, the ( (Ⅱ vs. ( T stage . vs. T4), . stage (N0 . N1 vs. ) and preoperative ( (＜5 vs. ( were the ＜ prognostic factors . LC, OS, ≥ and DFS. ≥ multivariate analysis, ) N stage . the only . significant predictor ( LC (p=0.0124), ) (p=0.0014), DMF ) and DFS ( N stage ) number of ) nodes) is ( most important ) factor in ) cancer patients ( postoperative radiotherapy ) Patients with ) than 3 . nodes had : poor treatment : The optimal ( treatment for ) cancer is ) controversial. Further . of various . modalities is .
: To compare : effect and ( of concomitant ( (CRT) and ) alone (RT) ) advanced nasopharyngeal ( (NPC).
Materials and ( A phase ) randomized trial ) conducted since ( 1993. Patients ( previously untreated ) pathologic diagnosis ) NPC were . These included . AJCC stage : 2)Karnofsky scale : 3)age ＜80 . old; 4)normal . renal, and . marrow function; . distant metastasis; ) informed consent. ) was administered Ⅲ both arms Ⅳ total dose Ⅳ 70-75 Gy/6-8 ; using a ; fractionation and ) The concomitant ) consisted of ＞ + 5-FU ＞ intravenous infusion ; the first ; fifth weeks ) radiotherapy.
Results: This ) analysis included ＜ patients who ＜ followed at ; 3 years ; treatment. It ) compatible between ) two groups ; patients' characteristics. ; response were ) 2 months ) treatment which ; no difference ; CRT and ) Acute toxicity . similar except . leucopenia which . more frequently . more severe . CRT arm. . most patients : both arms : the treatment . smoothly. The . primary disease-free, ' disease-free and ' metastasis disease-free . rates were . vs. 75.5%, . vs. 88.8%, . 73.4% vs. . respectively in . and RT . CRT has . local control . RT with . borderline significant . (P=0.0753). The . overall survival . progression-free survival . were 68.6% . 53.5% and ( vs. 55.1% ( favored CRT ) but the ) was not . significant. Distant . was the . site of . in both . Concomitant chemoradiotherapy . better than . alone in . control rate . advanced NPC. . most patients : at distant : Adequate and . neoadjuvant or . chemotherapy before ( after radiotherapy ( eradicate subclinical ) should be . consideration.
Purpose: : compare the : and toxicity ( concomitant chemoradiotherapy ( and radiotherapy ) (RT) for ) nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( and Methods: ( phase III ) trial was ) since December ( Patients with ( untreated and ) diagnosis of ) were eligible. . included 1)1992 . stage Ⅲ/Ⅳ; : scale ＞50%; : ＜80 years . 4)normal liver, . and bone . function; 5)no . metastasis; 6)obtaining ) consent. Radiotherapy ) administered in Ⅲ arms with Ⅳ dose of Ⅳ Gy/6-8 weeks ; a similar ; and technique. ) concomitant chemotherapy ) of cisplatin ＞ 5-FU continuous ＞ infusion during ; first and ; weeks of ) This preliminary ) included 120 ＜ who were ＜ at least ; years after ; It was ) between the ) groups in ; characteristics. Tumor ; were evaluated ) months after ) which showed ; difference between ; and RT. ) toxicity was . except for . which occurred . frequently and . severe in . arm. But . patients in : arms tolerated : treatment course . The 4-year . disease-free, regional ' and distant ' disease-free survival . were 91.6% . 75.5%, 93.7% . 88.8%, and . vs. 70.7%, . in CRT . RT groups. . has better . control than . with a . significant difference . The 4-year . survival and . survival rates . 68.6% vs. . and 70.1% ( 55.1% respectively, ( CRT groups ) the difference ) not statistically . Distant metastasis . the predominant . of failure . both arms.
Conclusion: . chemoradiotherapy is . than radiotherapy . in local . rate for . NPC. However, . patients failed : distant site(s). : and effective . or adjuvant . before or ( radiotherapy to ( subclinical micrometastasis ) be further .
目的 To evaluate 鼻癌 treatment results 治療 carcinoma of 材料 nasal cavity 方法 one single 至 and Methods 病理切片 patients with 鼻癌 carcinoma of 病人 cavity received 本院 treatment such 之 surgery alone 放射 cases, 10%), 及術 alone (22 放射 55%), or 根據 radiotherapy (14 裏 35%). Staging 分期 of the 計算 University was 存活率 in this 局部 Absolute survival, 和 survival, local 控制率 and regional 從 control were 至 The 5-year 之 control rates 局部 stage Ⅰ 分別 stage Ⅲ 五年 76%, 84% 及 55%, respectively. 分別 overall 5-year 及 cause-specific survival 第一 54% and 三 respectively. Overall 五年 survival for 為 Ⅰ through 併 were 88%, 及 and 30%, 治療 Five-year survival 治療 different treatment 僅作 by operation 之 postoperative radiotherapy, 存活率 alone, and 結論 alone revealed 頸部 45% and 轉移 respectively.
Conclusion: Initial 主要 and neck 預後因數 status were 方式 prognostic factors. 病理 methods, age, 源起 histology, and 對 of tumor 無 were not 影響 factors. Elective 頸部 irradiation might 治療 no significant 預防頸部 for the 發 of neck 顯益
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 鼻癌 results of 治療 of the 材料 cavity in 方法 single institution.
Materials 至 Methods Forty 病理切片 with pathologically-proved 鼻癌 of nasal 病人 received definite 本院 such as 之 alone (4 放射 10%), radiotherapy 及術 (22 cases, 放射 or post-operative 根據 (14 cases, 裏 Staging system 分期 the Florida 計算 was used 存活率 this study. 局部 survival, cause-specific 和 local control, 控制率 regional neck 從 were calculated.
Results 至 5-year local 之 rates for 局部 Ⅰ through 分別 Ⅲ were 五年 84% and 及 respectively. The 分別 5-year and 及 survival were 第一 and 64%, 三 Overall five-year 五年 for stage 為 through Ⅲ 併 88%, 60% 及 30%, respectively. 治療 survival of 治療 treatment methods 僅作 operation and 之 radiotherapy, radiotherapy 存活率 and operation 結論 revealed 63%, 頸部 and 75%, 轉移 Initial stage 主要 neck nodal 預後因數 were significant 方式 factors. Treatment 病理 age, gender, 源起 and sites 對 tumor origin 無 not significant 影響 Elective neck 頸部 might have 治療 significant benefit 預防頸部 the prevention 發 neck failure.
目的 The virtual 加速器 which is 楔型 in Primus 照射 dose rate 監控 and collimator 率 motion to 變化 the isodose 儀擋 of hard 移動 The purpose 固定式 this report 的 to compare 劑量 differences between 曲線 wedge and 是 wedge for 期望 wedge angles 剖面 beam profiles, 分 to evaluate 兩 feasibility of 比 wedge clinical 楔型 and Methods: 固定式 Memorial 1.0 濾器 parallel plate 差異性 was used 擬式 measure the 在 of MU/dose, 之 verify the 材料 dosimetry sets 本文 virtual wedge. 平行 WELLHOFER WP700 量測 phantom system 監控 ion chamber 劑量 applied to 校正 the desired ) (α.) of 証 The beam 式 data was 濾 by the 對 Nuclear The 應 linear array 劑 solid-state detectors.
Results: 定 with the 系統 commonly-used wedge 測虛 namely, 15°, 濾器 45° and 角度 the deviation 列式 desired virtual 統量 angle for 擬式 MV and 與 MV photon 濾器 are all 劑量 one-and-half degree. 曲線 beam profiles, 對 maximum deviation 楔型 VW and 的 for 6 ° was 5.0% 及 wedge angle 而言 60°, depth 虛擬式 5cm, and 相對 size of 的 For depth 在 5cm the 剖面 deviation between 分 wedge and 的 wedge for 濾器 MV was 楔型 with wedge 偏差 of 60°, 濾器 of 10cm, 深度 field size × 20×20cm^2. However, 而 depth less 超過 5cm, the 濾器 deviation for 深度 MV will × as high 但 11.1%.
Conclusions: Due 起過 the different 最大 and the 達 application of 基 wedge, we 一 a comprehensive 於 data before 的 apply the 治療 wedge technique 在 the clinics. 治療 also need 完整 set up 驗證 practice a 完善 assurance program 措施 virtual wedge 定期 to assure 工作 treatment quality.
Purpose: 目的 virtual wedge 加速器 is equipped 楔型 Primus uses 照射 rate variation 監控 collimator jaw 率 to simulate 變化 isodose distribution 儀擋 hard wedge. 移動 purpose of 固定式 report are 的 compare the 劑量 between virtual 曲線 and hard 是 for desired 期望 angles and 剖面 profiles, and 分 evaluate the 兩 of virtual 比 clinical application.
Materials 楔型 Methods: The 固定式 1.0 c.c. 濾器 plate chamber 差異性 used to 擬式 the ratio 在 MU/dose, to 之 the clinic 材料 sets of 本文 wedge. The 平行 WP700 water 量測 system with 監控 chamber was 劑量 to measure 校正 desired angle ) of VW. 証 beam profile 式 was measured 濾 the Sun 對 The Profiler 應 array of 劑 detectors.
Results: Compared 定 the 4 系統 wedge angles, 測虛 15°, 30°, 濾器 and 60°, 角度 deviation of 列式 virtual wedge 統量 for 6 擬式 and 18 與 photon beam 濾器 all within 劑量 degree. For 曲線 profiles, the 對 deviation between 楔型 and HW 的 6 MV ° 5.0% with 及 angle of 而言 depth of 虛擬式 and field 相對 of 15×15cm^2. 的 depth beyond 在 the maximum 剖面 between virtual 分 and hard 的 for 18 濾器 was 5.7% 楔型 wedge angle 偏差 60°, depth 濾器 10cm, and 深度 size of × However, for 而 less than 超過 the maximum 濾器 for 18 深度 will be × high as 但 Due to 起過 different concept 最大 the clinical 達 of virtual 基 we need 一 comprehensive verification 於 before we 的 the virtual 治療 technique in 在 clinics. We 治療 need to 完整 up and 驗證 a quality 完善 program for 措施 wedge system 定期 assure the 工作 quality.
目的 The purposes 多功能 this paper 加速器 to analyze 楔型 clinical physical 臨床 of virtual 之 for the 針對 PRIMUS 3008 的 acceleratot We 因子 on the 實體式 angles, transmission 的 and the 劑量 of relative 曲線 distributions between 分析 and virtual 臨床 The data 系統 be used 有效 set up 材料 computer treatment 使用 database.
Materials and ö We measure ^ wedge angles 在 transmission factors 中心 Wellhöfer IC 下 0.13 cc 測量 The wedge 濾器 are measured 中心 10cm depth 公分 the central 和 and SSD ) 90cm. Transmission 因數 are measured 另外 5cm (6 陣 and 10cm 在 MV) depth 時 central axis, 為 SSD is ) The relative ( profiles of 公分 and physical 的 are measured 度 Wellhöfer CA24 擬式 array. We 楔型 four depths 相 the central 曲線 (the depth 圖 d(subscript max), 楔型 15, 20cm 在 6 MV, 實際量 d(subscript max), 之問 15, 20cm 在 15 MV) 而 four wedge 趨近 The chamber 約 installed on 楔型 chamber frame 實體式 Wellhöfer water 在 (48×48×40cm^3).
Results The 角度 range of 相 wedge angles 分 below 1.5 變化 between the 濾器 setup and 的 results measured 分 ion chamber. 完全 transmission factors 楔型 virtual wedges 結論 almost constant. 濾器 relative dose 楔型 of virtual 靈活 physical wedges 但 not completely 於 same.
Conclusion The 的 applications of 有 wedge have 瞭解 for treatment 質驗證 and various 重點 angle. In 率 to promote 連續性 quality of 變化 the QA 真正 beccmes very 治療
Purpose: 目的 purposes of 多功能 paper are 加速器 analyze the 楔型 physical characteristics 臨床 virtual wedges 之 the Siemens 針對 3008 linear 的 We focus 因子 the wedge 實體式 transmission factors 的 the discrepancies 劑量 relative dose 曲線 between physical 分析 virtual wedges. 臨床 data will 系統 used to 有效 up the 材料 treatment planning 使用 and Methods ö measure virtual ^ angles and 在 factors by 中心 IC 15, 下 cc chamber. 測量 wedge angles 濾器 measured at 中心 depth of 公分 central axis, 和 SSD is ) Transmission factors 因數 measured at 另外 (6 MV) 陣 10cm (15 在 depth of 時 axis, and 為 is 100cm. ) relative dose ( of virtual 公分 physical wedges 的 measured by 度 CA24 chamber 擬式 We measure 楔型 depths of 相 central axis 曲線 depth are 圖 max), 5, 楔型 20cm for 在 MV, and 實際量 max), 10, 之問 20cm for 在 MV) for 而 wedge angles. 趨近 chamber is 約 on the 楔型 frame of 實體式 water phantom 在 The different 角度 of virtual 相 angles is 分 1.5 degrees 變化 the machine 濾器 and the 的 measured by 分 chamber. The 完全 factors of 楔型 wedges remain 結論 constant. The 濾器 dose profiles 楔型 virtual and 靈活 wedges were 但 completely the 於 The clinical 的 of virtual 有 have convenience 瞭解 treatment setup, 質驗證 various arbitrary 重點 In order 率 promote the 連續性 of treatment, 變化 QA program 真正 very important.
目的 The objective 較 this study 與 to evaluate 照野 compare patient 量 errors using 定位 film and 放射 film in 治療 therapy for 程度 cancer.
Materials and 由 Simulation films 位 port films 的 35 patients 名 cervical cancer 聯合處 analyzed. Two 側 landmarks, roof 位置 the acetabulum 以 symphysis pubis, 其 used to 與 the difference 的 simulation film 位移 port film.
Results: 分析 in X 子宮 of 31 中 are less 誤差 2mm. Errors 有 Y axis 小 30 cases 顯示 less than 方向 In other 軸 the error 模擬 Y axis 和 larger than 卻 in X 中 Based on 點的 analysis of 皆 data of 的 simulation films 其誤 AP port 之間 most of 模擬 radiation field 治療 are within 的 range of 高 to 1mm. 放射 setup errors 保證 our department 一環 acceptable.
Purpose: 目的 objective of 較 study is 與 evaluate and 照野 patient setup 量 using simulation 定位 and port 放射 in radiation 治療 for cervical 程度 and Methods: 由 films and 位 films of 的 patients with 名 cancer are 聯合處 Two anatomical 側 roof of 位置 acetabulum and 以 pubis, are 其 to evaluate 與 difference between 的 film and 位移 film.
Results: Errors 分析 X axis 子宮 31 cases 中 less than 誤差 Errors in 有 axis of 小 cases are 顯示 than 4mm. 方向 other words, 軸 error in 模擬 axis is 和 than that 卻 X axis.
Conclusion: 中 on the 點的 of the 皆 of AP 的 films and 其誤 port films, 之間 of the 模擬 field deviations 治療 within the 的 of 0 高 1mm. Therefore, 放射 errors in 保證 department are 一環
目的 To initiate 主要 conduct a 查核 chart review 予以 in a 其發生 oncology department. 執行 results were 制度 and reported.
Methods 經驗 Materials: According 方法 the guidelines 物理 by the 委員會 Group-40 report, ) a weekly 臨床 review program 計劃 initiated. Patients 每 their charts 治療 and treated 其病 June 1998 的 July 1999 共記錄 routinely reviewed 起到 every Friday 間 their treatment 病歷 Errors, once 發現 were documented, 於 categorized as 分類 (summation), recording, 錯誤 execution errors. 錯誤 were also 或 according to 也 machines and 發生 allocations. Calculation 機器 were rated 係 to the 劑量 between the 病歷 actually delivered 統計並 prescribed.
Results: A 結果 of 9425 數的 were reviewed. 中發現 these, 172 病歷 were identified, 為 for an 屬於劑 of 1.8% 占 Of these, 治療 (78/172), 52.3% 為 2.4% (4/172) 而 were due 或 calculation, recording, ( execution, respectively. 劑量 discrepancy in 病 of patients 劑量 less than 差率 equal to 等 Error distributions 占 treatment machine ) 23.8%, 23.8%, 發現 28.5%, and 治療 for Li 情形 L5, respectively. 及 most frequent ) allocation that ) occurred was 從 PM, accounting 病歷 20% of 時 errors.
Conclusion: A 最高者 chart review 點 is an 病歷 part of 結論 assurance in 制度 modem radiation 放射 department. A 保證 proportion of 的 errors can 藉此 effectively detected 並 aid of this program.
Purpose: 目的 initiate and 主要 a weekly 查核 review program 予以 a radiation 其發生 department. Its 執行 were analyzed 制度 reported.
Methods and 經驗 According to 方法 guidelines recommended 物理 the Task 委員會 report, AAPM, ) weekly chart 臨床 program was 計劃 Patients and 每 charts seen 治療 treated between 其病 1998 and 的 1999 were 共記錄 reviewed once 起到 Friday during 間 treatment course. 病歷 once identfied, 發現 documented, and 於 as calculation 分類 recording, or 錯誤 errors. Analyses 錯誤 also made 或 to treatment 也 and time 發生 Calculation errors 機器 rated according 係 the discrepancy 劑量 the dose 病歷 delivered and 統計並 A total 結果 9425 charts 數的 reviewed. Of 中發現 172 errors 病歷 identified, accounting 為 an incidence 屬於劑 1.8% (172/9425). 占 these, 45.3% 治療 52.3% (90/172), 為 (4/172) errors 而 due to 或 recording, and ( respectively. Dose 劑量 in 78% 病 patients was 劑量 than or 差率 to 5%. 等 distributions by 占 machine were ) 23.8%, 16.9%, 發現 and 7%, 治療 Li through 情形 respectively. The 及 frequent time ) that errors ) was 3-4 從 accounting for 病歷 of total 時 A weekly 最高者 review program 點 an integrated 病歷 of quality 結論 in a 制度 radiation oncology 放射 A substantial 保證 of treatment 的 can be 藉此 detected with 並 of this program.
: In this : 5-fluorouracil (5FU), : radiation or ( of both ( applied on ( colorectal adenocarcinoma ) (SW480) in ) to establish ) better therapeutic ( for clinical ( and Methods: ) SW480 cells ) used for ) experiments. For . treatment alone, . were treated . 0, 0.1, : 1-0, 1.5 : 2.0mM 5FU . 3 hours. . radiation treatment . cells were . for 0, . 1.5, 2, . and 6Gy. . combined treatment, . were treated . 0.2mM 5FU . graded radiation . using concurrent [ or different [ of sequence. [ fractions of ] were assayed ] 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2, 5-diphenyl-terazolium ] (MTT) method. ( of thymidylate ( and intracellular ) contents were ) measured.
Results: The ) fractions of . cells were . 40% after . treatments of . 1mM or . 5FU. The . inhibition concentration : obtained from : curve is . 0.4mM. Pre-irradiation . 5FU treatment, . 0.2mM 5FU ( and concurrent ( of 0.2mM ( and radiation ) had synergistic ) However, the . treatment of . and radiation . found with . highest killing . among the . different combined . After 1mM . 2mM 5FU . for three ( contents of ( glutathione were ＜ and 5,2±2.6nmole/mg, ＜ and were ＜ reduced (p＜ ) as compared ) 12±0.4nmole/mg of ) control group. . of oxidized . were 29.6±5.5nmole/mg ( 29.8±2.7nmole/mg, respectively, ( were significantly ( (p＜0.05) as ＜ to 20.5±3.0 ＜ of the ＜ group. Also, ) of thymidylate ) were reduced ) 0.59 ± . and 0.36±0.15pmole/min/mg, . as compared ＜ 2.7±0.76pmole/min/mg of ＜ control group, ＜ Concurrently combined . with ionizing . showed the . killing effect : SW480 human : carcinoma cells. . glutathione was . decreased in . cells after . and 2mM . treatments for . hours. The ( that the ( of low ( (0.2mM) 5FLJ ) low doses ) ionizing radiation ( 1.5Gy and ( still showed ( killing effect ) have feasible ) application in ) radiotherapy combined . chemotherapy for . colorectal carcinoma.
Purpose: : this study : (5FU), ionizing : or combination ( both was ( on human ( adenocarcinoma cells ) in order ) establish a ) therapeutic strategy ( clinical use.
Materials ( Methods: Log-phase ) cells were ) for all ) For 5FU . alone, cells . treated with . 0.1, 0.5, : 1.5 and : 5FU for . hours. For . treatment alone, . were irradiated . 0, 1, . 2, 4 . 6Gy. For . treatment, cells . treated with . 5FU and . radiation doses . concurrent treatments [ different order [ sequence. Surviving [ of cells ] assayed by ] 5-diphenyl-terazolium bromide ] method. Activity ( thymidylate synthase ( intracellular glutathione ) were also ) The surviving ) of SW480 . were about . after three-hour . of 0.5mM, . or 2mM . The 50% . concentration (IC50) : from survival : is about . Pre-irradiation 0.2mM . treatment, post-irradiation . 5FU treatment, ( concurrent treatment ( 0.2mM 5FU ( radiation all ) synergistic effect. ) the concurrent . of 5FU . radiation was . with the . killing effect . the three . combined treatments. . 1mM and . 5FU treatments . three hours, ( of reduced ( were 6.2±1.5nmole/mg ＜ 5,2±2.6nmole/mg, respectively, ＜ were significantly ＜ (p＜ 0.05) ) compared to ) of the ) group. Contents . oxidized glutathione . 29.6±5.5nmole/mg and ( respectively, and ( significantly increased ( as compared ＜ 20.5±3.0 amok/mg ＜ the control ＜ Also, activities ) thymidylate synthase ) reduced to ) ± 0.04pmole/min/mg . 0.36±0.15pmole/min/mg, respectively, . compared to ＜ of the ＜ group, p＜0.01.
Conclusions: ＜ combined 5FU . ionizing radiation . the highest . effect on : human colorectal : cells. Reduced . was significantly . in 5W480 . after 1mM . 2mM 5FU . for 3 . The finding ( the treatment ( low concentration ( 5FLJ with ) doses of ) radiation (1Gy, ( and 2Gy) ( showed synergistic ( effect may ) feasible clinical ) in fractionated ) combined with . for human . carcinoma.
目的 We studied 研究 to determine 測試 or not 可 can reduce 人類 survival of 細胞 human hepatoma 線後之 cells.
Materials and 材料 Twenty four 方法 after treatment 處理 0-8ng/ml colchicine, 後 cells were 不同 with various 線 Seventy five 方法 later, the 細胞 tetrazolium bromide)] 照射 was performed 的 assess cell 絲 Before radiation, 及 percentage of 形態 was calculated 結果 micrographs were 極低 for morphological 下 Colohicine at 即可 low concentration 人類 8ng/ml enhanced 細胞 growth-inhibiting effect 線後之 radiation (up 伴 10-folds compared 現象 2Gy radiation 秋水仙素 We also 細胞 a parallel 有 of colchicine 百分比 increasing the 細胞經 of mitosis 處理 cells before 形態 Cells treated 變成 colchicine became 浮起 floated up 現明顯 showed mitotic 分裂 under observation 現象 an inverted 結果 microscope.
Conclusion: These 秋水仙素 suggest that 降低 has potential 細胞 an adjunct 放射 radiotherapy for hepatoma.
Purpose: 目的 studied colchicine 研究 determine whether 測試 not it 可 reduce the 人類 of irradiated 細胞 hepatoma HA22T/VGH 線後之 and Methods: 材料 four hours 方法 treatment of 處理 colchicine, HA22T/VGH 後 were irradiated 不同 various doses. 線 five hours 方法 the MTT[(3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-y-2,5-diphenyl 細胞 bromide)] assay 照射 performed to 的 cell viability. 絲 radiation, the 及 of mitosis 形態 calculated and 結果 were taken 極低 morphological observation.
Results: 下 at a 即可 concentration of 人類 enhanced the 細胞 effect of 線後之 (up to 伴 compared to 現象 radiation alone). 秋水仙素 also noted 細胞 parallel effect 有 colchicine on 百分比 the percentage 細胞經 mitosis of 處理 before radiation. 形態 treated with 變成 became rounded, 浮起 up and 現明顯 mitotic features 分裂 observation by 現象 inverted light 結果 These findings 秋水仙素 that colchicine 降低 potential as 細胞 adjunct to 放射 for hepatoma.
: For reporting : preliminary result ( brain arteriovenous ( (AVM) treated ) single fraction . radiosurgery.
Materials and . From June : through April . 26 patients . brain AVM ( stereotactic radiosurgery. : age of : ranged from ) to 77 . old (median: . We used . MV X-ray ( linear accelerator. ( median prescribed : was 15 ) (range: 10-18.73 ) to the . margin. The ( dose ranged ( 4.62 to ) Gy (median ) Gy). The . dose ranged ( 13.33 to ( Gy (median ) Gy). The . target volume . 6.85 cm^3 ^ 0.63-25.76). Twenty-two ( were treated ( one isocenter : arcs), 4 ) with 2 ) (6-10 arcs). . evaluated the ( rate and ( complication.
Results: The ) angiogram or ( studies in ( patients revealed ) complete obliteration . in 1 . 2 years . 33% and : respectively. With : minimal dose . and＞ 13 . the 2-year ≤ obliteration rate ＞ 17% and ＞ respectively (p ( 0.0067). The ) complete obliteration ) was 44% . 34% with ≤ volume ≤6 ≤ ＞ 6 ＞ (p = ^ respectively. Higher ^ (＞85%) of ( dose to ) dose was ) in 73% . and 27% ( of the ( whose target ＞ was ≤6 ) ＞6 cm^3 ) = 0.02), ( In multivariate ) minimal dose ) an only ( factor for ( obliteration (p ) 0.0495). One ≤ had hemorrhage ≤ months after ＞ Two patients ^ radiation-induced complications ^ MRI 14 ( 21 months ) after radiosurgery.
Conclusion: ) volume and . dose may ( the obliteration ( of brain ) According to . review, the . obliteration rates . our series . lower than . reports. Lower : doses may . the cause. . doses may . the response .
Purpose: : reporting the : result of ( arteriovenous malformation ( treated with ) fraction stereotactic . and Methods: . June 1994 : April 1998, . patients with . AVM received ( radiosurgery. The : of patients : from 12 ) 77 years . (median: 28.5). . used 6 . X-ray Siemens ( accelerator. The ( prescribed dose : 15 Gy ) 10-18.73 Gy) ) the nidus . The minimal ( ranged from ( to 15.13 ) (median 11.88 ) The maximal . ranged from ( to 27.95 ( (median 18.84 ) The mean . volume was . cm^3 (range: ^ Twenty-two patients ( treated with ( isocenter (4-6 : 4 patients ) 2 isoeenters ) arcs). We . the response ( and radiation-induced ( The follow-up ) or MRI ( in 21 ( revealed the ) obliteration rates . 1 and . years were . and 41%, : With the : dose of≤13 . 13 Gy, . 2-year complete ≤ rate was ＞ and 60%, ＞ (p = ( The 2-year ) obliteration rate ) 44% and . with target ≤ ≤6 and ≤ 6 cm^3 ＞ = 0.6507), ^ Higher ratio ^ of minimal ( to prescribed ) was noted ) 73% (11/15) . 27% (3/11) ( the patients ( target volume ＞ ≤6 and ) cm^3 (p ) 0.02), respectively. ( multivariate analysis, ) dose was ) only significant ( for complete ( (p = ) One patient ≤ hemorrhage 5 ≤ after radiosurgery. ＞ patients had ^ complications on ^ 14 to ( months later ) radiosurgery.
Conclusion: Target ) and minimal . may influence ( obliteration rate ( brain AVM. ) to literature . the complete . rates in . series were . than some . Lower prescribed : may be . cause. Higher . may improve . response rate.
目的 To simulate 加馬刀 single beam 手術 and radial 與 distribution for 向 18 mm 佈 of a 加馬刀 Knife radiosurgery 系統 and Methods: 計畫 Monte Carlo ® was used 進行 simulate the 材料 beam passing 方法 polystyrene phantom.
Results: 卡羅計算機 results show 模擬 difference in 手術 relative dose 機 for point 單一射束 body sources, 均質 is desirable 結果 use a 中 source to 射源 the real 射源 source for 遮罩 the simulations 深度 this study 外 reduce computation 劑量 The simulated 佈 depth dose 與點 show good 模擬 with that 利用 by the 射源 planning system 模擬 (superscript ®)) 可 by the 減 except at 計算 region adjacent 加馬計 phantom surface. 劑量 simulated relative 區無法 dose distributions 深度 various depths 計算 indicate that 準確 assumption made 劑量 the GammaPlan 計畫 use the 焦點 dose distribution 向 the focus 分 replace those 取代 other depths 劑量 only minimum 佈 Excluding the 不妥 up effect 均質 depth dose 加馬計 at the 量 region, GanmiaPlan 深度 ®) show 分 good agreement 表面 EGS4 simulation 現象 on depth 其餘 radial dose 與 in a 劑量 phantom for 佈 beam of 準確 knife.
Purpose: 目的 simulate the 加馬刀 beam depth 手術 radial dose 與 for the 向 mm collimator 佈 a Gamma 加馬刀 radiosurgery unit.
Materials 系統 Methods: EGS4 計畫 Carlo code ® used to 進行 the single 材料 passing a 方法 phantom.
Results: Simulation 卡羅計算機 show no 模擬 in the 手術 dose distributions 機 point and 單一射束 sources, it 均質 desirable to 結果 a point 中 to replace 射源 real body 射源 for all 遮罩 simulations in 深度 study to 外 computation time. 劑量 simulated relative 佈 dose distribution 與點 good agreement 模擬 that calculated 利用 the treatment 射源 system (GammaPlan 模擬 ®)) provided 可 the manufacturer 減 at the 計算 adjacent to 加馬計 surface. The 劑量 relative radial 區無法 distributions at 深度 depths also 計算 that the 準確 made by 劑量 GammaPlan to 計畫 the radial 焦點 distribution at 向 focus to 分 those at 取代 depths generates 劑量 minimum errors.
Conclusions: 佈 the build 不妥 effect on 均質 dose distribution 加馬計 the surface 量 GanmiaPlan (superscript 深度 show a 分 agreement with 表面 simulation both 現象 depth and 其餘 dose distribution 與 a homogeneous 劑量 for single 佈 of gamma 準確
目的 The goal 欲 this study 核種 to analysis 錸 characterize the 氫氧亞 of rhenium-188-Sn-1, ( diphosphonate in 材料 therapy for 產生器 Medicine.
Materials and 核能 We use 國際間 generator of 首先 to do 合成 research, because 並進行 cooperated with 形成 of Institute 分析 Nuclear Energy 製 There are 子 generators of ( from Oak ( National Laboratory 大小 U.S.A.. First, 化合物 synthesize and 之影響 the rhenium-186-1, 條件 diphosphonate in 備 condition, then 在 analyte (including ) different conditions) 測定 proceed the 中 of the 鍵 of rhenium-188-Sn-1, 緩衝液 diphosphonate. Results 之分 Discussions: In 並進行 study, we 劑 that the 佈 components were 由 peaks by 放射性 analytical method 劑 TSK G2000 鹽 size exclusion 分析 in HPLC 成份 their charge 至 between -1 陰離子 -3. The 分析 main components 成份 five peaks 至 the analytical 條件 of Amine 核種 in HPLC 錸 their charge 主要 between -3 很大 -12 in 高 proportions.
Conclusion: We 成份 that the 呈 was only 愈低 in the 配劑 pH of 有 rhenium-188-Sn-l, 1-hydroxyethylidene 結論 and the 出置 increased more 的 more when 出來 concentration of 在 ion increased. 成份 contents of 研究 components are 子 dependent on 比例 ratio of 成份 ligand and 會 agent.
Objective: 目的 goal of 欲 study was 核種 analysis and 錸 the agent 氫氧亞 rhenium-188-Sn-1, 1-hydroxyethylidene ( in radionuclide 材料 for Nuclear 產生器 and Methods: 核能 use the 國際間 of W-188/Re-188 首先 do some 合成 because we 並進行 with researchers 形成 Institute of 分析 Energy Research. 製 are the 子 of W-188/Re-188 ( Oak Ridge ( Laboratory in 大小 First, We 化合物 and identify 之影響 rhenium-186-1, 1-hydroxyethylidene 條件 in different 備 then to 在 (including in ) conditions) and 測定 the biodistribution 中 the agent 鍵 rhenium-188-Sn-1, 1-hydroxyethylidcnc 緩衝液 Results and 之分 In this 並進行 we found 劑 the main 佈 were five 由 by the 放射性 method of 劑 G2000 PW 鹽 exclusion gel 分析 HPLC and 成份 charge is 至 -1 and 陰離子 The same 分析 components are 成份 peaks by 至 analytical method 條件 Amine A28 核種 HPLC and 錸 charge is 主要 -3 and 很大 in different 高 We found 成份 the component 呈 only one 愈低 the high 配劑 of the 有 1-hydroxyethylidene diphosphonate, 結論 the components 出置 more and 的 when the 出來 of hydrogen 在 increased. The 成份 of the 研究 are also 子 on the 比例 of the 成份 and reduced 會
目的 Measuring the 目前 contamination of 尚 MV X-ray 直線 from Siemens 能量 linear accelerator 之光 to be 量 reference of 遮罩 safety management.
Materials 之 Methods: This 與 includes four 研究 of measurements. 為 Portable neutron 份 (Harwell Co. ) which calibrated 侖 shadow cone ( is used ) environmental survey 經影錐法 the vicinity 治療 treatment room. 環境 Neutron detection 量測 including BF3 ) counter encased 儀模組 9 inch 計數器 3 inch 直徑 polystyrene (Ph) 吋 is used ( mean neutron 作為 distribution measurement 室 treatment room. 中子 Neutron activation 佈 of gold ( foil which 金片 irradiated in 中子 X rays 利用 is administrated 之高靈 determinate neutron 確定 (4) Powder 有 is used 量 measure the 粉狀 and fast ( flux in 度量 X rays 劑量 and Discussion: 工具 dose equivalent 討論 in the 中子 of measurement 儀 the treatment 測 is under 中子 detection limit 率 is in 背景 range of≦0.04μSv/h. 相當 distribution of μ energy of 室 from the 平均 of 1, 分 3 and 等 m are 及 0.20, 0.18 為 0.17 MeV, 快 in treatment 在 Thermal and 處為 neutron flux ^ isocenter are ) ×10^5 n ) s^(-1)and 1.745× 率為 n cm^(-2) ( respectively. The ( value is 計算 than 2.17×10^11 於 per Gy.
Conclusion: 結論 quantity of 加速器 in the 光子 MV X-ray 中子 of Siemen 不可 linear accelerator 量 not negligible 需 is in 該 level of 之 design. The 工程 structure of 防護 treatment room 之光 effective for photoneutron shielding.
Purpose: 目的 the photoncutron 目前 of 15 尚 X-ray emitted 直線 Siemens PRIMUS 能量 accelerator as 之光 be the 量 of radiation 遮罩 management.
Materials and 之 This research 與 four parts 研究 measurements. (1) 為 neutron remmeter 份 Co. N91) ) calibrated through 侖 cone method ( used for ) survey in 經影錐法 vicinity of 治療 room. (2) 環境 detection module, 量測 BF3 proportional ) encased by 儀模組 inch or 計數器 inch diameter 直徑 (Ph) sphere, 吋 used for ( neutron energy 作為 measurement in 室 room. (3) 中子 activation analysis 佈 gold (Au) ( which is 金片 in the 中子 rays field 利用 administrated to 之高靈 neutron contamination. 確定 Powder P205 有 used to 量 the thermal 粉狀 fast neutron ( in the 度量 rays field.
Results 劑量 Discussion: Neutron 工具 equivalent rate 討論 the points 中子 measurement near 儀 treatment room 測 under the 中子 limit and 率 in the 背景 of≦0.04μSv/h. The 相當 of mean μ of neutrons 室 the isocenter 平均 1, 2, 分 and 5 等 are 0.50, 及 0.18 and 為 MeV, respectively 快 treatment room. 在 and fast 處為 flux at ^ are 1.258 ) n cm^(-2) ) 1.745× l0^4 率為 cm^(-2) s^(-1), ( The Q ( is less 計算 2.17×10^11 neutron 於 Gy.
Conclusion: The 結論 of photoneutron 加速器 the 15 光子 X-ray beam 中子 Siemen PRIMUS 不可 accelerator is 量 negligible and 需 in considerable 該 of shielding 之 The shielding 工程 of this 防護 room is 之光 for photoneutron shielding.
前言 The aim 技術 this experiment 電子 to solve 上 problem of 效應 of skin 以期 in electron 皮膚 therapy and 的 increase the 使用 of skin 治療 radiation by 皮膚 grid technique.
Materials 的 methods: The 方法 of the 測量術 grid therapy 觀察當 to place 鉛 cerrobend grid 眼孔 the end ( an electron 之間 Film dosimetry 隔 used to 不同 the relative 不同 optical density 電子 depth profile ) grided electron . with energies 的 6 to 表面 MeV. Different 及 hole diameters 曲線 1.0, 1.5 情形 and grid 的 (s=0.4, 0.2 在 were investigated 下 each electron 技術 Our results 減少 that electron 平均 therapy can 的 the relative 網眼板 optical density 部分 various electron 百分比 The degradations 劑量 the relative 佈 optical density 這些 on the 其中 of open 徑 of the 設計 portal. The 同時 grid with 所受 cm diameter 在 and grid 一段 0.2 cm 形成 conform to 劑量 demands of 腫瘤 radiotherapy. With 劑量 design we 臨床 decrease the 結論 dose and 波動 range of 發生 dose be 技術確 to a 電子 so that 的 target volume 如能 receive a 的 dose.
Discussion: Grid 設計 can lessen 網眼 surface dose 電子 electron beam 缺乏 indeed. We 效應 delivery of 給予 radiation dose 電子 electron beams 的 damaging the 造成 by grid 傷害
Purpose: 前言 aim of 技術 experiment is 電子 solve the 上 of lack 效應 skin sparing 以期 electron beam 皮膚 and to 的 the tolerance 使用 skin to 治療 by using 皮膚 technique.
Materials and 的 The method 方法 the electron 測量術 therapy is 觀察當 place a 鉛 grid on 眼孔 end of ( electron cone. 之間 dosimetry was 隔 to measure 不同 relative surface 不同 density and 電子 profile of ) electron beam . energies of 的 to 14 表面 Different grid 及 diameters (d=0.45, 曲線 1.5 cm) 情形 grid spaces 的 0.2 cm) 在 investigated for 下 electron energy.
Results: 技術 results indicate 減少 electron grid 平均 can decrease 的 relative surface 網眼板 density at 部分 electron energies. 百分比 degradations of 劑量 relative surface 佈 density depend 這些 the percentage 其中 open area 徑 the grid 設計 The cerrobend 同時 with 1.5 所受 diameter holes 在 grid space 一段 cm could 形成 to the 劑量 of clinical 腫瘤 With this 劑量 we could 臨床 the surface 結論 and the 波動 of nonhomogeneous 發生 be limited 技術確 a depth 電子 that the 的 volume could 如能 a homogeneous 的 Grid technique 設計 lessen the 網眼 dose in 電子 beam radiotherapy 缺乏 We would 效應 of high 給予 dose with 電子 beams without 的 the skin 造成 grid technique.
蕈 fungoides is 病 rare T-cell 的 but it 然而 for about 所有 of all 細胞 of cutaneous 的 lymphoma. Radiation 久 long been 線 to treat 用 with this 這個 disease. However, 敏感性 significant proportion 不過 patients present 比例 generalized plaques 有廣泛 recurrence of 病變 outside or 在 within the 照射 irradiated area, 以外 challenged radiotherapists 復 decades how 數 irradiate skin 來 superficial layer 工作者 a somewhat 使 human body) 圓柱 not only 狀 field and 之表層 dose but 與 tolerable toxicity. 量 with low 且 electrons generated 接受 modern linear 的 depositing their 現代 within limited 加速器 could spare 低 tissues. The 在 technique, which 內釋 more satisfying 能量 distribution for 較 requirements was 組織 at Stanford 加以 three decades 史丹佛大 Since then, 一種 patients treated 照野接 total skin 在 beam radiation 要求 have better 到 response and 的 toxicity.
We adopted 佈 six-dual-field technique 全身 treat a 電子束 male with 的 plaques. The 較 distance was 臨床 to be 與 cm, and 的 acrylic beam 採用 was installed 六對 scatter the ” and attenuate 有廣泛 electron energy. 的 resulting electron 病患 was 2.62 射源 generated by 的 6 MeV 為 the output 一塊 which was 板 to deliver 束及 cGy/MU (at 能量 depth of 加速器 dose, d(subscript 初 The collimator 電子 fully opened 加速器 40×40 cm^2 減為 a cone. 最高 hinge angle 處 the dual-field 開至 determined to 且 20 degrees. 加錐孔 measured multiplication 照野 was 2.68. 各 prescribed a 準軸成 dose at 下 mm depth 之 the skin 係 (90% isodose ) Overall, 1212 腫瘤 were required 定 each field. 表面 flatness was 處 ±5% and 等 in the 曲線 and horizontal 一照 respectively. Thermoluminescent 照射 (TLD) were 平坦 to evaluate 在 homogeneity at 方向 sites. Individualized 與 or shielding 熱發 used at 量計 sites. Radiation 的測 was administered 評估 4 consecutive 部位 per week, 劑量 2 days 是否 a treatment 或 On the 別 day of 而定 cycle, half 個 the 6 每 were irradiated, 週期 the other 天 treated the 的 day A 照野 dose of 是 Gy over 照射 cycles was 達到 with a 量 dose of 療程 Gy. A 正中 midway break 天 given. The 對此 lesions responded 良好 to this 前 and itching 結束 completely relieved 完全 to completion 手掌 the first 掌 of the 皮膚 course. Side 完全 (marked dermatitis 接受 palms and 病人 and total 絕後續 loss) were 治療 The patient 全身 subsequent adjuvant 放射 total skin 可以 can achieve 的 initial clinical 效果 the management 於 patients with 樣黴菌 fungoides is 的 challenging. This 是 has a 此 to relapse, 有極 the chance 復 dismal to 要 patients with 癒 disease beyond 已 plaque stage 範圍 the time 機會 In additicn 除了 radiation therapy, 治療 variety of 法 have been 臨床 clinical use 研究 in investigation. 我們 suppose combination 這類 should be 複 in these 以提 to improve 期療效 control.
Mycosis 蕈 is a 病 T-cell lymphoma, 的 it accounts 然而 about half 所有 all cases 細胞 cutaneous 7-cell 的 Radiation has 久 been used 線 treat patients 用 this radiosensitive 這個 However, a 敏感性 proportion of 不過 present with 比例 plaques or 有廣泛 of lesions 病變 or even 在 the previously 照射 area, it 以外 radiotherapists for 復 how to 數 skin (the 來 layer of 工作者 somewhat ”cylinder-like” 使 body) with 圓柱 only larger 狀 and higher 之表層 but also 與 toxicity. Radiation 量 low energy 且 generated by 接受 linear accelerators, 的 their energy 現代 limited depth 加速器 spare deeper 低 The six-dual-field 在 which provide 內釋 satisfying dose 能量 for these 較 was developed 組織 Stanford University 加以 decades ago. 史丹佛大 then, the 一種 treated with 照野接 skin electron 在 radiation would 要求 better clinical 到 and minor 的 adopted the 佈 technique to 全身 a 49-year-old 電子束 with generalized 的 The source-to-surface 較 was extended 臨床 be 323 與 and an 的 beam spoiler 採用 installed to 六對 the beam ” attenuate the 有廣泛 energy. The 的 electron energy 病患 2.62 MeV, 射源 by a 的 MeV Linac, 為 output of 一塊 was degraded 板 deliver 0.0648 束及 (at the 能量 of maximum 加速器 d(subscript max). 初 collimator was 電子 opened to 加速器 cm^2 without 減為 cone. The 最高 angle of 處 dual-field was 開至 to be 且 degrees. The 加錐孔 multiplication factor 照野 2.68. We 各 a tumor 準軸成 at 5 下 depth beneath 之 skin surface 係 isodose profile). ) 1212 MU 腫瘤 required for 定 field. Beam 表面 was within 處 and ±10% 等 the vertical 曲線 horizontal dimensions, 一照 Thermoluminescent dosimeters 照射 were used 平坦 evaluate dose 在 at 45 方向 Individualized boost 與 shielding was 熱發 at appropriate 量計 Radiation therapy 的測 administered for 評估 consecutive days 部位 week, with 劑量 days constituting 是否 treatment cycle. 或 the first 別 of a 而定 half of 個 6 dual-fields 每 irradiated, with 週期 other half 天 the other 的 A total 照野 of 36 是 over 18 照射 was given 達到 a fraction 量 of 2 療程 A 10-day 正中 break was 天 The skin 對此 responded well 良好 this regimen, 前 itching was 結束 relieved prior 完全 completion of 手掌 first half 掌 the treatment 皮膚 Side effects 完全 dermatitis of 接受 and soles 病人 total hair 絕後續 were acceptable. 治療 patient refused 全身 adjuvant therapy.
Despite 放射 skin radiation 可以 achieve good 的 clinical outcome, 效果 management of 於 with mycosis 樣黴菌 is still 的 This disease 是 a predisposition 此 relapse, and 有極 chance is 復 to cure 要 with the 癒 beyond limited 已 stage for 範圍 time being. 機會 additicn to 除了 therapy, a 治療 of modalities 法 been in 臨床 use or 研究 investigation. We 我們 combination treatment 這類 be administered 複 these patients 以提 improve long-term 期療效
目的 The dosage 盆腔 radiotherapy to 治療 pelvis is 受限 limited by 的 tolerance of 劑量 bowel. This 評估 is to 病患 the dose 臥 histogram (DVH) 姿勢 the irradiated 藉由 volume by 分 position with 圖 board in 的 to treatment 顯示 supine position 體積 Two patients 姿勢 rectal cancer 的 analyzed.
Materials and 並對 Two groups 不同 sequential computerized 進行 (CT) scans 村料 performed with 每位 slice thickness 均 each patient. 電腦 group of 其中 scans was 病患 for patient 姿勢 a belly 在 in a 器 position, and ) other one 一 in a 躺 position for 進行 the bowel 影像 volume with 治療 previous scan. 中 copies of 積分 scan slices 與 both patients ( produced. The 劑量 of small 圖 volumes were 小腸 on each 與 slice hard 的 and the 積分 was then 劑量 and entered 圖 treatment planning 用以 The cumulative 正常 the differential 受到 were performed 傷害 evaluating the 表示 irradiation volume.
Results: 俯臥 cumulative DVH, 至 is used 百分 assessing potential 內 to normal 體積 shows that 躺 70% to ~ of the 評估 dose in 組織 position has 劑量 15% to 的 volume reduction 劑量 to supine 佈 The differential 看到 which is 所受 in assessing 較 of dose 的 tumors. shows 分 the irradiated 移到 volume has 的 moved to 結論 region of 腹部 percentage dose.
Conclusion: 的 of bowel 使小腸 out of 範圍 true pelvis 是 done by 的 a belly 或 in the 的 position for 可 and obese 減低 instead of 體積 position to 方式 the volume 一個 the intestine 模具 irradiation because 的 external compression. 病人 pelvic board 整個 a half-body 中 can be 相同 to immobilize 及 for precise 確保 and repositioning 的 the entire treatment.
Purpose: 目的 dosage of 盆腔 to the 治療 is always 受限 by the 的 of small 劑量 This study 評估 to evaluate 病患 dose volume 臥 (DVH) of 姿勢 irradiated bowel 藉由 by prone 分 with belly 圖 in comparison 的 treatment in 顯示 position technique. 體積 patients with 姿勢 cancer were 的 and Methods: 並對 groups of 不同 computerized tomography 進行 scans were 村料 with 8-mm 每位 thickness for 均 patient. One 電腦 of the 其中 was obtained 病患 patient with 姿勢 belly board 在 a prone 器 and the ) one was 一 a supine 躺 for comparing 進行 bowel irradiation 影像 with the 治療 scan. Hard 中 of CT 積分 slices for 與 patients were ( The contours 劑量 small bowel 圖 were outlined 小腸 each CT 與 hard copy 的 the information 積分 then digitized 劑量 entered into 圖 planning computer. 用以 cumulative and 正常 differential DVHs 受到 performed for 傷害 the bowel 表示 volume.
Results: The 俯臥 DVH, which 至 used in 百分 potential damage 內 normal tissue, 體積 that from 躺 to 95% ~ the percentage 評估 in prone 組織 has a 劑量 to 18% 的 reduction compared 劑量 supine position. 佈 differential DVH, 看到 is useful 所受 assessing uniformity 較 dose to 的 shows that 分 irradiated bowel 移到 has been 的 to a 結論 of rower 腹部 dose.
Conclusion: Displacement 的 bowel loops 使小腸 of the 範圍 pelvis is 是 by using 的 belly board 或 the prone 的 for thin 可 obese patients 減低 of supine 體積 to decrease 方式 volume of 一個 intestine under 模具 because of 的 compression. The 病人 board and 整個 half-body cast 中 be applied 相同 immobilize patient 及 precise positioning 確保 repositioning throughout 的 entire treatment.
目的 To report 腦幹 rare case 成熟 brainstem immature 局部 treated by 及立體 limited-field radiotherapy 治療 stereotactic radiotherapy.
Materials 材料 Methods: A 歲 female presented 吸入性 symptoms and 經檢查 of recurrent 腫瘤 pneumonia that 反射 caused by 功能 She had 食物 episodes of 的 respiratory arrest 並兩次 hypotension while 呼吸衰竭 the hospital. 之 tomography (CT) 位 the brain 生命 a heterogenous 顯微 at lower 部份 stem region. 報告 surgery only 不 yielded a ( of tumor 治療 disclosed the 發生 of immature 血壓 Adjuvant chemotherapy 半途中 the regimen 生命 cisplatin, etoposide, 正常 bleomycin was 局部 but was 共 due to 的 onset of 以立體 arrest. In 治療 to maintain 腫瘤 function, limited-field 總劑 with 39.6 治療 to planning 兩週 volume followed 一次 a boost 治療 to the 結果 site by 放射 radiotherapy were 後 with a 脊液 dose of 阿發 Gy. Two 蛋白 after radiotherapy, 貝他 patient began 絨 monthly adjuvant 激素 for 4 ) up to 放射 time of 的 report.
Results: Previously 偏高回 serum and 咽 fluid (CSF) 功能 of both 復 and beta 藉 gonadotropin returned 進食 a normal 有 after irradiation. 到 swallowing reflex 吸入性 improved and 發生 patient did 的 develop aspiration 放射 again even 持續 the NG 有 was removed. 血壓 function has 之 stable following 幹 Our limited 不 suggests that 本文 field radiotherapy 經驗 by a 局部 dose with 合 radiotherapy is 定位 effective in 治療 brainstem immature 控制 for both 緩解 tumor control 均 relief of 的 symptoms.
Purpose: 目的 report a 腦幹 case of 成熟 immature teratoma 局部 by post-operative 及立體 radiotherapy and 治療 radiotherapy.
Materials and 材料 A 21-year-old 歲 presented with 吸入性 and signs 經檢查 recurrent aspiration 腫瘤 that was 反射 by dysphagia. 功能 had two 食物 of acute 的 arrest and 並兩次 while in 呼吸衰竭 hospital. Computed 之 (CT) of 位 brain revealed 生命 heterogenous mass 顯微 lower brain 部份 region. Microscopic 報告 only could 不 a piece ( tumor that 治療 the entity 發生 immature teratoma. 血壓 chemotherapy with 半途中 regimen of 生命 etoposide, and 正常 was administered, 局部 was interrupted 共 to sudden 的 of respiratory 以立體 In order 治療 maintain brainstem 腫瘤 limited-field irradiation 總劑 39.6 Gy 治療 planning target 兩週 followed by 一次 boost dose 治療 the primary 結果 by stereotactic 放射 were performed 後 a total 脊液 of 54.6 阿發 Two weeks 蛋白 radiotherapy, the 貝他 began receiving 絨 adjuvant chemotherapy 激素 4 cycles ) to the 放射 of this 的 Previously elevated 偏高回 and cerebrospinal 咽 (CSF) levels 功能 both alpha-fetoprotein 復 beta human-chorionic 藉 returned to 進食 normal range 有 irradiation. The 到 reflex gradually 吸入性 and the 發生 did not 的 aspiration pneumonia 放射 even after 持續 NG tube 有 removed. Brainstcm 血壓 has remained 之 following irradiation.
Conclusion: 幹 limited experience 不 that limited 本文 radiotherapy followed 經驗 a boost 局部 with stereotactic 合 is very 定位 in treating 治療 immature teratoma 控制 both local 緩解 control and 均 of life-threatening 的
目的 Arylamine N-acetylation 胺 by the 基乙 (NAT) may 酵素 an important 醯 factor in 本 initiation of 探討 cancer. Vitamin 大腸 (aipha-tocopherol) has 大腸癌 known for 乙 years as 酵素 antioxidant and 及 as an 大腸 component of 及 regimens. The 組織 of NAT 醯 the effect 活性 vitamin E 材料 NAT activity 取 healthy colon 正常 colon cancerous 及 (in vitro) 利用 investigated.
Materials and 化輔 Forty human 醯 colon and 利用 cancerous tissue 層析儀 (subcellular fraction) 醯 investigated for 的 activity. The 對 of vitamin 組織 on the 癌癌 of NAT 乙 also examined 轉移 high pressure 的 chromatography (HPLC) 和 2-aminofluorene and 結果 acid as 乙 in this 酵素 NAT activity 較 higher in 中 cancerous tissue 轉移 than in 高 colon tissue 大腸 and vitamin 大腸 could decrease 組織 activity in 醯 colon and 的 cancerous tissue 降低 The results 結論 suggest a 治療 to the 預防有 of vitamin 床 in treatment 本實驗 prevention of 探討 colon cancer. 報告 future, in 進 study will 研究 investigated.
Purpose: 目的 N-acetylation capacity 胺 the N-acetyltransferase 基乙 may be 酵素 important causative 醯 in the 本 of colorectal 探討 Vitamin E 大腸 has been 大腸癌 for many 乙 as an 酵素 and act 及 an important 大腸 of anticancer 及 The activity 組織 NAT and 醯 effect of 活性 E on 材料 activity in 取 colon and 正常 cancerous tissues 及 vitro) were 利用 and Methods： 化輔 human healthy 醯 and colon 利用 tissue cytosol 層析儀 fraction) were 醯 for NAT 的 The effect 對 vitamin E 組織 the activity 癌癌 NAT was 乙 examined by 轉移 pressure liquid 的 (HPLC) using 和 and p-aminobenzoic 結果 as substrates 乙 this study.
Results: 酵素 activity are 較 in colon 中 tissue cytosol 轉移 in healthy 高 tissue cytosol 大腸 vitamin E 大腸 decrease NAT 組織 in healthy 醯 and colon 的 tissue cytosol.
Conclusion: 降低 results may 結論 a clue 治療 the use 預防有 vitamin E 床 treatment and 本實驗 of human 探討 cancer. In 報告 in vivo 進 will be 研究
目的 To investigate 和 quantitative changes 骨 bone after 定量分析 Cobalt-60 irradiation 局部性 using biochemical 放射 and well-established 對骨 analysis and 影響 mechanisms of 骨質 bone loss.
Materials 材料 Methods: Forty 本 old male 使用 rats were 雄性 assigned into 隨機 and irradiated 分成 groups. Five 和 of each 照射 were sacrified 鈷 1, 7, ( or 28 照射 after 12 右側 of localized 脛 irradiation on 分別 femur and 後 The parameters 動物 bone formation 利用 bone resorption, 分析法 the mechanism 抗 IR on 酸性 were evaluated 的 biochemical bone 靜態 assay [measuring 骨 concentrations of 學計量 phosphatase and 進行 resistant acid 局部 (TRAP)], and 骨 static and 吸收 bone histomorphometry.
Results: 的 days after 分析 cobalt-60 irradiation, 對線 were significant 組織 in TRAP, 的 and resorption 鈷 and decreases 線 OB/mm^2. A 七天 decrease in 鹽 occurred 14 活性 after irradiation. 平均 addition, OC/mm^2, 骨 and resorption 顯著 returned to 而 on day 造骨 No significant 硬 were found 骨 percent hard 厚度 percent bone, 礦物質 thickness, trabecular 及骨 apposition and 骨 bone formation 則明 the irradiated 在 untreated normal 天則 group one 參數 after irradiation. 回 they became 趨勢 less on 鈷 7 and 線 to resume 破骨 the day 含核數 after irradiation.
Conclusion: 鹽 Cobalt-60 irradiation 活性 significantly increase 吸收 TRAP activity 遞 resorption space. 原始 addition, it 造骨 decrease osteoprogenitor 活性 proliferation, osteoblastic 作用 and mineralization, 減少 induce dramatic 放射 loss. In 六十 Cobalt-60 irradiation 骨質 result in osteopenia.
Purpose: 目的 investigate the 和 changes in 骨 after localized 定量分析 irradiation (IR) 局部性 biochemical assay 放射 well-established histomorphometric 對骨 and the 影響 of irradiation-induced 骨質 loss.
Materials and 材料 Forty 8-week 本 male Sprague-Dawley 使用 were randomly 雄性 into control 隨機 irradiated (IR) 分成 Five rats 和 each group 照射 sacrified at 鈷 7, 14 ( 28 days 照射 12 Gy 右側 localized Cobalt-60 脛 on right 分別 and tibia. 後 parameters of 動物 formation and 利用 resorption, and 分析法 mechanism of 抗 on bone 酸性 evaluated using 的 bone marker 靜態 [measuring the 骨 of serum-alkaline 學計量 and tartrate 進行 acid phosphatase 局部 and the 骨 and dynamic 吸收 histomorphometry.
Results: Seven 的 after localized 分析 irradiation, there 對線 significant increases 組織 TRAP, nuclei/OC 的 resorption surface, 鈷 decreases in 線 A significant 七天 in OC/mm^2 鹽 14 days 活性 irradiation. In 平均 OC/mm^2, nuclei/OC 骨 resorption surface 顯著 to normal 而 day 28. 造骨 significant difference 硬 found in 骨 hard tissue, 厚度 bone, trabecular 礦物質 trabecular mineral 及骨 and trabecular 骨 formation between 則明 irradiated and 在 normal control 天則 one day 參數 irradiation. However, 回 became significantly 趨勢 on day 鈷 and began 線 resume on 破骨 day 28 含核數 irradiation.
Conclusion: Localized 鹽 irradiation could 活性 increase nuclei/osteoclast, 吸收 activity and 遞 space. In 原始 it significantly 造骨 osteoprogenitor cell 活性 osteoblastic activity 作用 mineralization, and 減少 dramatic bone 放射 In conclusion, 六十 irradiation could 骨質 in osteopenia.
目的 To review 高雄榮民 treatment results 性上 invasive transitional 上皮 carcinoma of 治療 urinary tract 材料 Veterans General 自 and Methods: 至 March 1991 共有 December 1996, 性上 patients with 移形 transitional cell 的 of the 根除 urinary tract 男性 radical surgery. 位 were 31 位 and 15 為 patients. Patient's 中位數 ranges between 位 and 82 手術 (median: 67). 線 patients received 量 radiotherapy with 至 of 48.6 位 60 Gy 治療 55) to ) tumor bed. ) patients received 療程 to 12 ( (median: 4) 例 post-operative chemotherapy 已有 regimens of 移者 (methotrexate, vinblastine, 輸尿管 cisplatin) or 者 (methotrexate, cisplatin, 結果 Twenty, 21, 月 patients were 中位數 staged as 局部 T3, T4 有 1992), respectively. ) patients had 轉移者 node metastasis ( Twenty four 所有 had tumor 年 to ureter 年 Follow-up duration 是 from 5 因子 65 months 時 32). Overall, 淋巴 patients (15%) 原發 local recurrence 輸尿管 16 patients 對 developed distant 與 Overall 5-year 存活率 rate (5 預後較 was 19%, 且 5-year disease-free 到 rate (5 的 was 16%. 手術者 lymph nodes 放射 and the 治療 tumor only 手術後化學 statistically significant 之 factors for 分別 YSR and ( DFS. 5 ) for surgery 無病 group, post-operative 是 group and ) chemotherapy group 後 16%, 12% 治療 37% respectively 嚴重 5 DFS 發生 the aforementioned 已有 arms were 結轉 10% and 例 respectively (p=0.37). 遠端 severe complications 已 observed in 發生 with post-operative 泌尿道 Three out 有 the 4 部位 with lymph 膀胱 metastasis developed 論 metastasis and 給予 Eight patients 放射 second location 或化學 all of 有 occurred in 高 bladder.
Conclusions: This 病人 showed relative 轉移 incidences of 沒 developing distant 淋巴 regardless of 原發 arms was 輸尿管 Negative lymph 年 metastasis and 年 ureteral tumor 存活率 were good 預後較 for 5 手術後化學 and 5 的 The post-operative 存活率 group had 無病 higher 5 單獨 and 5 手術 than the 線 treatment groups, 者 the results 雖未達 further confirmation 上 it was 但 statistically significant.
Purpose: 目的 review the 高雄榮民 results of 性上 transitional cell 上皮 of upper 治療 tract at 材料 General Hospital-Kaohsiung.
Materials 自 Methods: From 至 1991 to 共有 1996, 46 性上 with invasive 移形 cell carcinoma 的 the upper 根除 tract received 男性 surgery. There 位 31 male 位 15 female 為 Patient's age 中位數 between 43 位 82 years. 手術 67). Sixteen 線 received postoperative 量 with dosages 至 48.6 to 位 Gy (median: 治療 to the ) bed. Fourteen ) received 2 療程 12 courses ( 4) of 例 chemotherapy using 已有 of MVEC 移者 vinblastine, epirubicin, 輸尿管 or MCV 者 cisplatin, vinblastine). 結果 21, 5 月 were pathologically 中位數 as T2, 局部 T4 (AJCC, 有 respectively. Four ) had lymph 轉移者 metastasis pathologically. ( four patients 所有 tumor confined 年 ureter only.
Results: 年 duration ranges 是 5 to 因子 months (median: 時 Overall, 7 淋巴 (15%) developed 原發 recurrence and 輸尿管 patients (35%) 對 distant metastasis. 與 5-year survival 存活率 (5 YSR) 預後較 19%, and 且 disease-free survival 到 (5 DFS) 的 16%. Negative 手術者 nodes metastasis 放射 the ureteral 治療 only were 手術後化學 significant good 之 for 5 分別 and 5 ( 5 YSR ) surgery alone 無病 post-operative radiotherapy 是 and post-operative ) group were 後 12% and 治療 respectively (p=0.43). 嚴重 DFS for 發生 aforementioned treatment 已有 were 15%, 結轉 and 27% 例 (p=0.37). No 遠端 complications were 已 in patients 發生 post-operative radiotherapy. 泌尿道 out of 有 4 patients 部位 lymph node 膀胱 developed distant 論 and died. 給予 patients had 放射 location tumors, 或化學 of which 有 in the 高 This study 病人 relative high 轉移 of patients 沒 distant metastasis 淋巴 of treatment 原發 was given. 輸尿管 lymph node 年 and the 年 tumor only 存活率 good factors 預後較 5 YSR 手術後化學 5 DFS. 的 post-operative chemotherapy 存活率 had a 無病 5 YSR 單獨 5 DFS 手術 the other 線 groups, and 者 results need 雖未達 confirmation although 上 was not 但 significant.
: Retrospectively review : treatment results : polymorphic reticulosis ( called angiocentric ( lymphoma) patients ( Veterans General ) over the ) fifteen years ( and Methods: ( December 1982 ( December 1997, ) were 40 ) diagnosed of . reticulosis at . General Hospital-Taipei. . were 35 : patients and : female patients. : age of . patients ranged . 14 to . years old. . follow-up period . from 1 . 172 months. . histories, laboratory . X-ray examinations . modalities of . from medical . of each . were reviewed. . patients received . alone, 19 . received radiotherapy : and 16 : received radiotherapy : with chemotherapy . surgery.
Results: The . disease-free survival . of all . was 35%. . 5-year disease-free ; rate for ; receiving radiotherapy . was 57%. . was 19% . patients treated ( radiotherapy plus ( chemotherapy or ) and 8% ) for patients ) surgery combined ( other treatments. ( of involved ( (=1), Karnofsky ＞ (＞70), non-surgery ＞ are positive ) prognostic factors. ) were 23 ) died and . of them . evidence of ( progression (5 ( of distant ( and 4 ) of locoregional ) There were . patients relapsed . 15 patients . received chemotherapy, . there were . patients relapsed . 25 patients : without chemotherapy.
Conclusion: : reticulosis had . local control . by radiotherapy. . may be . for prevention . distant metastasis ( local recurrence. ( of involved ( good Karnofsky ) and non-surgical ) are associated . prognosis.
Purpose: : review the : results of : reticulosis (now ( angiocentric T-cell ( patients at ( General Hospital-Taipei ) the past ) years (1982-1997).
Materials ( Methods: From ( 1982 to ( 1997, there ) 40 patients ) of polymorphic . at Veterans . Hospital-Taipei. There . 35 male : and 5 : patients. The : of the . ranged from . to 78 . old. The . period ranged . 1 to . months. Medical . laboratory and . examinations and . of treatment . medical records . each patient . reviewed. Five . received chemotherapy . 19 patients . radiotherapy alone : 16 patients : radiotherapy combined : chemotherapy or . The 5-year . survival rate . all patients . 35%. The . disease-free survival ; for patients ; radiotherapy alone . 57%. It . 19% for . treated with ( plus surgery, ( or both; ) 8% only ) patients received ) combined with ( treatments. Number ( involved sites ( Karnofsky scale ＞ non-surgery treatment ＞ positive statistical ) factors. There ) 23 patients ) and 9 . them have . of disease ( (5 cases ( distant metastasis ( 4 cases ) locoregional recurrence). ) were 2 . relapsed in . patients who . chemotherapy, and . were 7 . relapsed in . patients who : chemotherapy.
Conclusion: Polymorphic : had excellent . control rate . radiotherapy. Chemotherapy . be benefit . prevention of . metastasis and ( recurrence. Number ( involved site(s), ( Karnofsky scale, ) non-surgical treatment ) associated better .
目的 To retrospectively 以 the feasibility, 或合 and outcome 治療 definitive radiotherapy 治療 or without 頸部 for patients 治療 resectable head 存活率 neck cancers.
Materials 方法 Methods: Thirty 為 with resectable 頸部 and neck 接受 were treated 或合 definitive split-course 治療 with or 為 concurrent chemotherapy. 第二期 patient had 二十二位 I, 4 放射 II, 3 一次 Ⅲ and 兩次 stage IV 為 Radiotherapy was 使用 once daily 兩次 twice daily 中 total dose 治療 68-74 Gy. 放射 included 2 的 with CDDP+/-SFIJ 分析 radiotherapy, and 分析 cycles with 結果 after radiation 間 Survival outcome 為 calculated by 四年 Kaplan-Meier method. 無病 factors were 局部 by log-rank 及 The median 的 time was 可忍受 months. The 病人 overall survival, 上 survival and 較佳 control rates ) 55.7%, 64.9% 後 75.8%, respectively. 或 toxicities were 檢查 T1/T2 diseases 有 associated with 的 locoregional control 有意 The presence 差 residual disease ( post-treatment MRI 存活率 CT was ) prognostic factor 無再發 overall survival ) disease-free survival 治療 and locoregional 化學 survival (p=0.0001).
Conclusion: 方式 radiotherapy with 之頭 without chemotherapy 可 be an 手術外 to radical 選擇 for patients 可 resectable head 治療 neck cancers, 及 acceptable toxicity 結束 outcome. The 或 of residual 檢查 on post-treatment 有 studies demands 的 investigation and 接受 salvage treatment.
Purpose: 目的 retrospectively analyze 以 feasibility, toxicity 或合 outcome of 治療 radiotherapy with 治療 without chemotherapy 頸部 patients with 治療 head and 存活率 cancers.
Materials and 方法 Thirty patients 為 resectable head 頸部 neck cancers 接受 treated with 或合 split-course radiotherapy 治療 or without 為 chemotherapy. One 第二期 had stage 二十二位 4 stage 放射 3 stage 一次 and 22 兩次 IV diseases. 為 was given 使用 daily or 兩次 daily with 中 dose of 治療 Gy. Chemotherapy 放射 2 cycles 的 CDDP+/-SFIJ during 分析 and 2 分析 with CDDP+5FU 結果 radiation treatment. 間 outcome was 為 by the 四年 method. Prognostic 無病 were determined 局部 log-rank test.
Results: 及 median follow-up 的 was 50.8 可忍受 The 4-year 病人 survival, disease-free 上 and locoregional 較佳 rates were ) 64.9% and 後 respectively. Treatment-related 或 were tolerable. 檢查 diseases were 有 with heifer 的 control (p=0.03). 有意 presence of 差 disease on ( MRI or 存活率 was the ) factor for 無再發 survival (p=0.05), ) survival (p=0.009) 治療 locoregional recurrence-free 化學 (p=0.0001).
Conclusion: Definitive 方式 with or 之頭 chemotherapy can 可 an alternative 手術外 radical surgery 選擇 patients with 可 head and 治療 cancers, with 及 toxicity and 結束 The presence 或 residual disease 檢查 post-treatment imaging 有 demands further 的 and possibly 接受 treatment.
目的 To evaluate 包 efficacy of 閉性 formula dressing 應用 the wound 皮膚 of acute 之護理 damage by 評估 in nasopharyngeal 皮膚 patients.
Materials and 的 One hundred 傷口 cancer patients 關 acute skin 是否 at middle 感染 region due 舒適 the effect 快速 irradiation were 材料 into the 接受 and divided 後 two groups. 性 first group 脫 applied with 之 0.5% soluble 臨 plus neomycin 護理 and the 藥膏 group with 敷料 DuoDERM (Bristol-Meyers) 中乃基 a gel 合 dressing to 細菌 skin wound. 傷口 end points 舒適性 for evaluating 效果 skin healing 位個案 were (1). 癒 growth, (2). 之 time, (3). 方式 in wound 溫度 and (4). 皮膚 relief.
Results: No 表皮 infection was 平均 in both 次 Skin temperature 一天 lo C 次 the skin 癒 is in 固醇 The healing 水膠性 was 29-42 水膠性 in the 的 ointment group 疼痛感 6-13 days 時類 the wet 組有 group. Ninety-four 疼痛 of patients 討論 the gel 完全 dressing group 治療 satisfied with 急性 effect of 適及 relief, in 增強 to only 治療 in the 自信心 ointment group.
Conclusion: 治療 formula dressing 之 relieve the 的 sensation and 傷口 the healing 並且 of wet 降低 caused by 時及 irradiation in 昇 cancer patients.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 包 of gel 閉性 dressing in 應用 wound care 皮膚 acute skin 之護理 by radiation 評估 nasopharyngeal cancer 皮膚 and Methods: 的 hundred nasopharyngeal 傷口 patients developing 關 skin reaction 是否 middle neck 感染 due to 舒適 effect of 快速 were enrolled 材料 the study 接受 divided into 後 groups. The 性 group was 脫 with (A) 之 soluble hydrocortisone 臨 neomycin ointment 護理 the second 藥膏 with (B) 敷料 (Bristol-Meyers) - 中乃基 gel formula 合 to the 細菌 wound. The 傷口 points set 舒適性 evaluating of 效果 healing process 位個案 (1). Bacterial 癒 (2). Healing 之 (3). Change 方式 wound temperature 溫度 (4). Pain 皮膚 No local 表皮 was recognized 平均 both groups. 次 temperature lowers 一天 C as 次 skin healing 癒 in progress. 固醇 healing time 水膠性 29-42 days 水膠性 the steroid 的 group and 疼痛感 days in 時類 wet dressing 組有 Ninety-four percentages 疼痛 patients in 討論 gel formula 完全 group were 治療 with the 急性 of pain 適及 in contrast 增強 only 22% 治療 the hydrocortisone 自信心 group.
Conclusion: Gel 治療 dressing did 之 the uncomfortable 的 and shorten 傷口 healing time 並且 wet desquamation 降低 by local 時及 in nasopharyngeal 昇 patients.
目的 To evaluate 在 magnitude and 伏特 factors of 時 perturbation due 與 air to 效應 inhomogeneity for 量 photon beams. 其影響 dosimetric property 相關 resin, a 討樹脂 component of 利用 or prosthesis, 器 investigated.
Materials and 之主 The heterogeneity 劑量 correction factor 特性 is introduced 方法 defined as 質性 where Di 因子 the dose 其中 heterogeneous condition 材質 Dh is 出之劑 of the 為 point in 勻 homogenous phantom. 量 perturbation for 光子 sizes of 各種 air-filled and 大小 cavity were 樹脂 for 6 空腔 10 MV 之 beams along 其 beam direction 程度 both proximal 野面積 (entering the 或 and distal 空氣腔 (leaving the 時 Significant underdosage 遠端 than 30%) 明顯 occur on 現象 distal interface 於 the field 使用 is equal 射線 or less 當照 the air 時 size, especially 增加 higher energy 於 beams. The 可能 increases with 過高 increase in 之後會 sizes and 固定 be greater 腔後壁 1 unity, 則發現 indicates the 再 of overdosage, 至於 it will 產生 constant afterwards. 不足 buildup region 野面積 observed at 仍然 downstream measurements. 其 phenomenon at 不 proximal air-phantom 於 remains over 作為 wide range 明顯 field sizes, 擾動 it is 材質 significant (＜10%). 時 use of 起來 as the 差異 tilling material 以內 dramatically reduce 當 dose perturbation 內 within 2.5% 存在 both interfaces, 可達 with a 平衡 condition.
Conclusion: With 界面 air cavity 組織 in the 劑量 volume and 因素 the condition 腔徑 electron equilibrium 情況 pre-cavity medium, 射線 dose measured 等 interface and 減少 tissue is 被 by the 光子 between the 增加 size and 平衡 size, and 這些 between the 選擇 shape and 之射線 beam energy. 計劃 of scattered 大小 and increase 將是 unattenuated photon 由 balance it. 其 designed planning 在 sufficient field 之 from proper 我們 beam is 使用 Resin can 空腔 used to 改善 the cavity 佈 improving the 勻度 distribution.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 在 and corresponding 伏特 of dose 時 due to 與 to tissue 效應 for megavoltage 量 beams. The 其影響 property of 相關 a major 討樹脂 of obturator 利用 prosthesis, is 器 and Methods: 之主 heterogeneity dose 劑量 factor (HDCF) 特性 introduced and 方法 as Di/Dh 質性 Di is 因子 dose at 其中 condition and 材質 is dose 出之劑 the same 為 in a 勻 phantom. Dose 量 for varying 光子 of cubic 各種 and resin-filled 大小 were examined 樹脂 6 and 空腔 MV photon 之 along the 其 direction for 程度 proximal side 野面積 the cavity) 或 distal side 空氣腔 the cavity).
Results: 時 underdosage (more 遠端 30%) can 明顯 on the 現象 interface when 於 field size 使用 equal to 射線 less than 當照 air cavity 時 especially for 增加 energy photon 於 The HDCF 可能 with the 過高 in field 之後會 and can 固定 greater than 腔後壁 unity, which 則發現 the possibility 再 overdosage, but 至於 will remain 產生 afterwards. A 不足 region is 野面積 at the 仍然 measurements. Underdose 其 at the 不 air-phantom interface 於 over a 作為 range of 明顯 sizes, but 擾動 is less 材質 (＜10%). The 時 of resin 起來 the cavity 差異 material will 以內 reduce the 當 perturbation to 內 2.5% on 存在 interfaces, compared 可達 a homogeneous 平衡 With an 界面 cavity embedded 組織 the treatment 劑量 and under 因素 condition of 腔徑 equilibrium of 情況 medium, the 射線 measured at 等 and subsequent 減少 is influenced 被 the relationship 光子 the field 增加 and cavity 平衡 and also 這些 the cavity 選擇 and photon 之射線 energy. Loss 計劃 scattered electron 大小 increase of 將是 photon beam 由 it. Well 其 planning with 在 field size 之 proper energy 我們 is recommended. 使用 can be 空腔 to fill 改善 cavity for 佈 the dose 勻度
目的 To evaluate 發表 feasibility and 肝臟 of the 治療 documented models 線 prediction of 肝病 -induced liver 機率 (RILD), for 用性 with hepatocellular 材料 (HCC) treated 年 3-dimensional conformal 月 and Methods: 病人 September 1994 空間 October 1998, 線 patients with 月 developed FOLD 線 3 months 肝病 completion of 治療 conformal radiotherapy. 接受 patients had 斷層 simulation with 影像 images including 整個 entire liver. 量 detailed information 係 the dose-volume ( (DVH), including ( 30Gy), V(subscript ( V (subscript 幾項 and prediction 由 (PS), were 模式 and assessed. 線 complication probabilities 病變 compared with 四位 documented models.
Results: 引起 patients died 變 RILD-related hepatic 二位 and 2 此 Two patients 二位 more than 二位 of the 併 with ＞ 正常 cay survived 的 the other 小 patients died 的 RILD with 超過 and 23% 大 the liver 病人 ＞ 30 其 Three of 量 patient had 密西根 recommended doses 依據 radiation based ) the calculated 劑量 60%). According 併 the normal 模式分析 complication probability 為 model, the 四位 probabilities were 併 than 5% 均 within 5-20% 若 0.69 and 則機率 were applied 目前 the volume 幾種 parameters, respectively.
Conclusion: 引起 the currently 變 models fail 預測 accurately estimate 準確 probability of 肝 for the 接受 patients with 治療 treated with 發症 conformal radiotherapy. 目前 is indicated 放射 establish a 劑量 for patients 資料 HCC in 適合 using the 病人 available fractionation 預測 the information 有 the DVH.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 發表 and accuracy 肝臟 the currently 治療 models for 線 of radiation 肝病 liver disease 機率 for patients 用性 hepatocellular carcinoma 材料 treated with 年 conformal radiotherapy.
Materials 月 Methods: From 病人 1994 to 空間 1998, four 線 with HCC 月 FOLD within 線 months after 肝病 of 3-dimensional 治療 radiotherapy. All 接受 had CT 斷層 with the 影像 including the 整個 liver. The 量 information from 係 dose-volume histogram ( including V(subscript ( V(subscript 50%) ( (subscript off) 幾項 prediction score 由 were calculated 模式 assessed. The 線 probabilities were 病變 with several 四位 models.
Results: Two 引起 died of 變 hepatic failure 二位 2 recovered. 此 patients had 二位 than half 二位 the liver 併 ＞ 30 正常 survived but 的 other 2 小 died of 的 with 40% 超過 23% of 大 liver receiving 病人 30 Gy. 其 of 4 量 had the 密西根 doses of 依據 based on ) calculated V(subscript 劑量 According to 併 normal tissue 模式分析 probability (NTCP) 為 the complication 四位 were less 併 5% and 均 5-20% if 若 and 0.32 則機率 applied for 目前 volume effect 幾種 respectively.
Conclusion: All 引起 currently documented 變 fail to 預測 estimate the 準確 of FOLD 肝 the 4 接受 with HCC 治療 with 3-dimensional 發症 radiotherapy. It 目前 indicated to 放射 a model 劑量 patients with 資料 in Taiwan, 適合 the currently 病人 fractionation and 預測 information from 有 DVH.
本部 upgrade radiotherapy 昇 and medical 治療 our department 醫療 Co-60 unit 乙部 LAI) with 光子 linear accelerator 問及 MV dual 考量 moved from 六十 LA II) ( set up 原 new Siemens 光子 linear accelerator 加速器 10/15 MV 六十 energy) in 隔鄰 The Co-60 按 will move 能量 another compartment. 及 the higher ) energy of 建構物 and new 厚度 of the 鉛門 room, the 等 shielding including 線 thickness of 昇 and lead 重新 the length 因素 maze ....etc, 計算 be re-evaluated. 文根據 are based 號報 NCRP49, 51, 行政院 102, ICRP60 游離 AEC dose 標準 and the 空間 show the 與 deficiency on 及法 maze and 後 door. The 迷宮長 of the 鉛門 and relative 的 problems will 相關 discussed in 文中 paper.
For 本部 radiotherapy techniques 昇 medical quality, 治療 department replaces 醫療 unit (room 乙部 with the 光子 accelerator (6/10 問及 dual energy, 考量 from room 六十 II) and ( up an 原 Siemens PRIMUS 光子 accelerator (linac, 加速器 MV dual 六十 in LAII. 隔鄰 Co-60 unit 按 move to 能量 compartment. Since 及 higher radiation ) of linacs 建構物 new arrangement 厚度 the treatment 鉛門 the previous 等 including the 線 of barriers 昇 lead door, 重新 length of 因素 ....etc, need 計算 re-evaluated. Calculations 文根據 based on 號報 51, 33, 行政院 ICRP60 and 游離 dose constraint, 標準 the results 空間 the shielding 與 on ceiling, 及法 and lead 後 The process 迷宮長 the calculation 鉛門 relative shielding 的 will be 相關 in this 文中
目的 To evaluate 了 result of 放射 radiation treatment 攝護 prostate cancer, 結果 performed a 回溯 analysis of 來 referred to 接受 department from 治療 to 1996.
Material 攝護 Methods: From 材料 to 1996, 自 total of 共有 prostate cancer 攝護 were referred 被 our department 接受 radiotherapy (RT). 僅有 73 patients 局限 had disease 盆腔 to the 完成 (stage A-D1) 位 completed the 進入 treatment were 後 into this 位 The median 位為 was 67 期 (range 53-78) 期 the median 位 time was 的 months (range 為 -124.3). For 範圍 for comparison, 追 divided those 為 into two 範圍 for final 月 group I 便 curative RT 我們將 64 patients; 二組 II - 治 prostatectomy followed 性 adjuvant RT, 治療 patients. Radiotherapy Ⅱ delivered by 性 two-dimensional treatment 切除 External irradiation 放射 usually given 位 10 or 放射 MV X-ray 治療 the pelvis 採傳統 then coned 治療 to the 用 and seminal 放射 yielding a ) dose of 骨 to 8400 再縮 (mean 6638 貯 for group 及 patients and 總劑 to 6800 平均值 (mean 5956 至 for group 共有 patients. Adjuvant 接受 neoadjuvant hormone 荷爾蒙 was given 這 33 patients.
Results: 病患 II acute 早期 (01) and ) (GU) toxicity 級 observed in 腸胃 (38%) and 位 (25%) patients, 有 There were 的 patient with 位有 grade III 級 toxicity and 道 patient with 第三 grade III 泌尿道 toxicity. Late 在 analysis was 晚期 available in 產生 patients. Severe 發症 complications including 屢管 formation, urethral 膀胱炎 cystitis, proctitis 位 found in 其中 patients (14%) Ⅰ is higher 位為 other reported ) Those patients 獻 received RT 較 radical prostatectomy 接受 a significant 輔助性 severe late 的 rate than 晚期 who received 併 alone. (44% 比例 9%, p＜0.05). 單純 overall survival 治療 for all 病人 are 67% ρ 5 years 這 36% at 年 years. The 存活率 survivals for 為 patients are 專屬 at 5 年 and 34% 中 10 years. 者 local control 為 are 83% 分期 stage A 則為 B, 90% 年齡 stage C 荷爾蒙 50% for 線 Dl patients 量 group I. 單變 local control 中發現 for group 專屬 patients is 沒 In univariate 統計學 age, stage, 義的 grading, hormone 本篇 and RT 癒 didn’t show 線 impact on 或 specific survivals.
Conclusion: 攝護腺 study showed 輔助性 local control 對 after curative 腺癌 or radical 良好 followed by 控制 RT are 傳統 However, the 空間 rates after 方式 two-dimensional RT 偏高 high. Further 攝護 in three-dimensional 的 RT for 治療 cancer is 空間 recommended in 以 of decreasing 副作用
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 了 of conventional 放射 treatment for 攝護 cancer, we 結果 a retrospective 回溯 of patients 來 to our 接受 from 1982 治療 1996.
Material and 攝護 From 1982 材料 1996, a 自 of 240 共有 cancer patients 攝護 referred to 被 department for 接受 (RT). Only 僅有 patients who 局限 disease confined 盆腔 the pelvis 完成 A-D1) and 位 the RT 進入 were entered 後 this analysis. 位 median age 位為 67 years 期 53-78) and 期 median follow-up 位 was 38.5 的 (range 7.8 為 For convenience 範圍 comparison, we 追 those patients 為 two groups 範圍 final analysis: 月 I - 便 RT alone, 我們將 patients; group 二組 - radical 治 followed by 性 RT, 9 治療 Radiotherapy was Ⅱ by conventional 性 treatment plan. 切除 irradiation was 放射 given by 位 or 15 放射 X-ray to 治療 pelvis and 採傳統 coned down 治療 the prostate 用 seminal vesicle, 放射 a total ) of 4400 骨 8400 cGy 再縮 6638 cGy) 貯 group I 及 and 5600 總劑 6800 cGy 平均值 5956 cGy) 至 group II 共有 Adjuvant or 接受 hormone therapy 荷爾蒙 given in 這 patients.
Results: Grade 病患 acute gastrointestinal 早期 and genitourinary ) toxicity were 級 in 28 腸胃 and 18 位 patients, respectively. 有 were one 的 with acute 位有 III 01 級 and another 道 with acute 第三 III GU 泌尿道 Late morbidity 在 was only 晚期 in 66 產生 Severe late 發症 including fistula 屢管 urethral stricture, 膀胱炎 proctitis were 位 in 9 其中 (14%) which Ⅰ higher than 位為 reported series. ) patients who 獻 RT after 較 prostatectomy experienced 接受 significant higher 輔助性 late complication 的 than those 晚期 received RT 併 (44% vs 比例 p＜0.05). The 單純 survival rates 治療 all patients 病人 67% at ρ years and 這 at 10 年 The cause-specific 存活率 for all 為 are 66% 專屬 5 years 年 34% at 中 years. The 者 control rates 為 83% for 分期 A and 則為 90% for 年齡 C and 荷爾蒙 for stage 線 patients in 量 I. The 單變 control rate 中發現 group II 專屬 is 100%. 沒 univariate analysis, 統計學 stage, pathology 義的 hormone therapy 本篇 RT dose 癒 show significant 線 on cause 或 survivals.
Conclusion: This 攝護腺 showed the 輔助性 control rates 對 curative RT 腺癌 radical prostatectomy 良好 by adjuvant 控制 are good. 傳統 the complication 空間 after conventional 方式 RT are 偏高 Further efforts 攝護 three-dimensional conformal 的 for prostate 治療 is highly 空間 in term 以 decreasing toxicity.
目的 To study 術前 impact of 治療 irradiation on 於 sphincter preservation 直腸癌 to evaluate 在 treatment outcome 器官 patients with 之 rectal cancer. 並評 results were 治療 for the 及 of sphincter 遺症 sphincter function, 和 control, disease-free 從 overall survival 月 treatment-related morbidities.
Materials 年 Methods: From 共有 to 1996, 腸癌 patients with 因腫瘤 resectable rectal 過於 received preoperative 肛門 at our 外科 All of 判斷 patients had 同時 a prospective 腫瘤並 assessment by 肛門 surgeons and 了 declared to 病患 an abdominoperineal 腫瘤 due to 並 proximity of 肛門 tumor to 之 anal sphincter. 本科 whole pelvis 術前 37.5 Gy 治療 daily fraction 範圍 2.5 Gy 骨 parallel opposed 劑量 portals.
Results: Thirty 計 the forty-three 每週 (70%) were 五天 to undergo 放射 anterior resection. 後 majority (88%) 位 patients had ) sphincter function 患者 sphincter-preserving surgery. 保存 pathologic stage 之 T2 in 前位 patients and 術 in 32 整體 The 3- 無病 overall survival 局部 disease-tree survival 各為 and local 單變數 rate of 發現 43 patients 分期 60%, 62%, 局部 89%, respectively. 結轉移 univariate analysis, 於 stage and 存活率 presence of 存活率 lymphadenopathy were 為 as significant 後 factors for 對 overall survival 局部 disease-free survival. 則 regard to 局部 control, only 結轉 presence of 有意 lymphadenopathy showed 後 significance for 接受 control. No 肛門 in survival 低 and local 切除 rate was 並不影響 between patients 之 low anterior 及 and those 控制率 abdominoperineal resection. 變數 multivariate analysis, 發現 stage was 分期 as the 影響 independent prognostic 存活率 for disease-free 獨立 likewise, only 因子 presence of 淋巴 was demonstrated 移為 an independent 局部 for local 之 No clinical 獨立 pathologic parameters 術前 proved to 治療 independent prognostic 於 for overall 直腸癌 Acute intestinal 患者 included grade 病患 in 10 相當 patients, grade 接受 in 18 肛門 patients, and 切除 3 in 同時 patients (5%). 前 patients had 治療 urological toxicity.
Conclusion: 保存 the help 肛門 preoperative radiotherapy, 約 significant proportion 功能 patients would 大部份 a chance 皆 receive sphincter-preserving 正常 Furthermore, the 改進 sphincter functioned 技術 in most 減少 the patients. 治療 efforts should 副作用 made to 有待 the treatment-related morbidities.
Purpose: 目的 study the 術前 of preoperative 治療 on enhancing 於 preservation and 直腸癌 evaluate the 在 outcome in 器官 with lower 之 cancer. The 並評 were analyzed 治療 the endpoints 及 sphincter preservation, 遺症 function, pelvic 和 disease-free survival, 從 survival and 月 morbidities.
Materials and 年 From 1992 共有 1996, 43 腸癌 with clinically 因腫瘤 rectal cancer 過於 preoperative radiotherapy 肛門 our department. 外科 of these 判斷 had undergone 同時 prospective clinical 腫瘤並 by their 肛門 and were 了 to require 病患 abdominoperineal resection 腫瘤 to the 並 of the 肛門 to the 之 sphincter. The 本科 pelvis received 術前 Gy in 治療 fraction of 範圍 Gy with 骨 opposed anterior-posterior 劑量 Thirty of 計 forty-three patients 每週 were able 五天 undergo low 放射 resection. The 後 (88%) of 位 had good ) function after 患者 surgery. The 保存 stage was 之 in 11 前位 and T3 術 32 patients. 整體 3- year 無病 survival rate, 局部 survival rate, 各為 local control 單變數 of the 發現 patients were 分期 62%, and 局部 respectively. In 結轉移 analysis, pathologic 於 and the 存活率 of regional 存活率 were noted 為 significant prognostic 後 for both 對 survival and 局部 survival. With 則 to local 局部 only the 結轉 of regional 有意 showed prognostic 後 for local 接受 No difference 肛門 survival rate 低 local control 切除 was observed 並不影響 patients undergoing 之 anterior resection 及 those undergoing 控制率 resection. In 變數 analysis, pathologic 發現 was noted 分期 the only 影響 prognostic factor 存活率 disease-free survival; 獨立 only the 因子 of lymphadenopathy 淋巴 demonstrated as 移為 independent predictor 局部 local control. 之 clinical and 獨立 parameters were 術前 to be 治療 prognostic factors 於 overall survival. 直腸癌 intestinal toxicity 患者 grade 1 病患 10 (23%) 相當 grade 2 接受 18 (42%) 肛門 and grade 切除 in 2 同時 (5%). No 前 had acute 治療 toxicity.
Conclusion: With 保存 help of 肛門 radiotherapy, a 約 proportion of 功能 would have 大部份 chance to 皆 sphincter-preserving surgery. 正常 the preserved 改進 functioned well 技術 most of 減少 patients. Further 治療 should be 副作用 to reduce 有待 treatment-related morbidities.
目的 To evaluate 下咽 results and 單獨性 pathological prognostic 治療 in surgery 併 postoperative radiotherapy 後 radiotherapy alone 治療 hypopharyngeal cancer.
Materials 治療 Methods: This 分析 analysis is 學上 on the 因子 outcome of 方法 patients with 月 cancer treated 年 surgery plus 本院 radiotherapy and 放射 alone from 或 1987 to 術 1997. There 放射 79 males 的 2 females, 癌 24 and 回溯 years old 的 54). The 男性 of patients 女性 stages I 於 IV were 歲 3, 22 其腫瘤 56, respectively. 四期 were no 及 difference in 病患 and N-distributions 期 the two 佈 groups. Radiotherapy 顯差異 was used 病患 18 patients 單獨性 1.8 Gy 治療 fraction per 線 to a 平均 total dose 為 63.9 Gy 至 34.2 to 病患 Gy). Surgical 切除 for 63 併 consisted of 切除 laryngectomy with 切除 or total 病患 and esophagectomy 輔助性 indicated. These 線 received ad]uvant 劑量 to a 於 dose of 接受 (range 36 併 73.8 Gy).
Results: 放射 5-year survival 之 were 33% 年 patients treated 為 surgery plus 放射 radiotherapy and 病患 for patients 存活率 with radiotherapy 存活率 There was 差異 significant difference 併 survival between 放射 two treatment 之 The local 的 rate at 控制率 years was 接受 for patients 線 with surgery 病患 adjuvant radiotherapy, 局部 with 40% 其有 patients treated 差異 radiotherapy alone ) a significant 確認 (p = 與 Multivariate analysis 為 that perineural 預 and necrosis 因子 the significant 併 of poorer 放射 The combination 比單 surgery plus 放射 results in 有 better locoregional 的 than radiotherapy 但 but dose 存活率 yield a 神經 survival. Perineural 壞 and necrosis 有意 associated with 因子 survival.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate treatment 下咽 and analyze 單獨性 prognostic factors 治療 surgery plus 併 radiotherapy and 後 alone for 治療 cancer.
Materials and 治療 This retrospective 分析 is based 學上 the clinical 因子 of 81 方法 with hypopharyngeal 月 treated with 年 plus adjuvant 本院 and radiotherapy 放射 from January 或 to December 術 There were 放射 males and 的 females, between 癌 and 80 回溯 old (median: 的 The numbers 男性 patients in 女性 I to 於 were 0, 歲 22 and 其腫瘤 respectively. There 四期 no significant 及 in T- 病患 N-distributions between 期 two treatment 佈 Radiotherapy alone 顯差異 used in 病患 patients with 單獨性 Gy pen 治療 per day 線 a mean 平均 dose of 為 Gy (range 至 to 75.6 病患 Surgical treatment 切除 63 patients 併 of total 切除 with partial 切除 total pharyngectomy 病患 esophagectomy when 輔助性 These patients 線 ad]uvant radiotherapy 劑量 a mean 於 of 60.4Gy 接受 36 to 併 Gy).
Results: The 放射 survival rates 之 33% for 年 treated with 為 plus adjuvant 放射 and 30% 病患 patients treated 存活率 radiotherapy alone. 存活率 was no 差異 difference in 併 between the 放射 treatment groups. 之 local control 的 at 5 控制率 was 52% 接受 patients treated 線 surgery plus 病患 radiotherapy, compared 局部 40% for 其有 treated with 差異 alone with ) significant difference 確認 = 0.015). 與 analysis identified 為 perineural invasion 預 necrosis are 因子 significant predictors 併 poorer survival.
Conclusion: 放射 combination of 比單 plus radiotherapy 放射 in a 有 locoregional control 的 radiotherapy alone, 但 dose not 存活率 a better 神經 Perineural invasion 壞 necrosis are 有意 with poorer 因子
目的 To determine 了 efficacy of 評估 interferon alfa-2b 治療 A) (rIFN) 鼻咽癌 the treatment 我們 primary untreated 一個 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 臨床 before radiotherapy 氾 to determine 患者 efficacy and 治療 of combined 準備 and radiotherapy 再 and Patients: 進行 patients enrolled 與 this study. 觀察干 of them 鼻咽癌 histologically proved 角色 advanced NPC. 方法 received rIFN 患者 injection with 此 of 3 干擾素 10^8 U/body, 一週 times a 皮下注射 for a 平均 of 6 後 Then rIFN 評估 continued during 後 following 7 每天 radiotherapy period 等 the same 放射 and schedule. 其間 consisted of 接受 Gy of 劑量 irradation with 皮下注射 fractionation. Toxicities 有 response were 得以 A long 干擾 report was 療效 There was 病患 observed response 的 neoadjuvant rIEN 位 in 13 反而 patients. Twelve 增長 them received 其中 radiotherapy as 患者 as rIFN 併 All of 素 had rapid 治療 shrinkage, 10 全部 them (83%) 能 complete response 而 radiotherapy. The 的 mucositis (≧grade 小 toxicity was 消失 substantial, and 患者 patients had 左右 forced to 粘膜炎 to radiotherapy 暫時 There were 放射 patients with 的 failure and 如 had distant 骨骼 The median 全身 for those 多屬 patients who 能以 complete course 有效 treatment was 經過 months (range: 的 Interferon single 最長 is not 計有 in NPC 死 The combined 遠端 of rlFN 患者 radiotherapy has 復 in a 現象 oropharyngeal mucositis 存活期 from the 月 effect of 單用 but it 在 not translate 一無效 a higher 方式 control rate 有 lower distant 放射 rate. The 雖然 of adjunctive 與 of rIFN 並 not evident 之處 this small 提供 of study. 增強 viewing of 效果 better tolerance 一個 rIFN than 對 by most 併 the radiosensitization 素 of rIFN 治療 be further 持樂觀 and explored.
Purpose: 目的 determine the 了 of recombinant 評估 alfa-2b (Intron 治療 (rIFN) in 鼻咽癌 treatment of 我們 untreated undifferentiated 一個 carcinoma (NPC) 臨床 radiotherapy and 氾 determine the 患者 and feasibility 治療 combined rIFN 準備 radiotherapy concomitantly.
Material 再 Patients: Fourteen 進行 enrolled in 與 study. All 觀察干 them had 鼻咽癌 proved locally 角色 NPC. Patients 方法 rIFN subcutaneous 患者 with dose 此 3 x 干擾素 U/body, three 一週 a week 皮下注射 a median 平均 6 weeks. 後 rIFN was 評估 during the 後 7 weeks’ 每天 period with 等 same dose 放射 schedule. Radiotherapy 其間 of 70 接受 of boo-regional 劑量 with conventional 皮下注射 Toxicities and 有 were evaluated. 得以 long follow-up 干擾 was performed.
Results: 療效 was no 病患 response from 的 rIEN treatment 位 13 evaluable 反而 Twelve of 增長 received scheduled 其中 as well 患者 rIFN treatment. 併 of them 素 rapid tumor 治療 10 of 全部 (83%) had 能 response after 而 The oropharyngeal 的 (≧grade 3) 小 was quite 消失 and most 患者 had been 左右 to interrupt 粘膜炎 radiotherapy course. 暫時 were two 放射 with locally 的 and 6 如 distant metastases. 骨骼 median survival 全身 those 12 多屬 who received 能以 course of 有效 was 26 經過 (range: 20-140+months).
Discussion: 的 single agent 最長 not effective 計有 NPC therapy. 死 combined use 遠端 rlFN and 患者 has resulted 復 a higher 現象 mucositis rate 存活期 the radiosensitization 月 of rIFN, 單用 it does 在 translate to 一無效 higher local 方式 rate nor 有 distant failure 放射 The benefit 雖然 adjunctive use 與 rIFN is 並 evident from 之處 small series 提供 study. In 增強 of the 效果 tolerance of 一個 than chemotherapy 對 most patients, 併 radiosensitization effect 素 rIFN can 治療 further studied 持樂觀 explored.
目的 It got 腦瘤 consensus about 後 therapy of 尤其 grade glioma, 細胞瘤 for the 是 grade astrocytoma. 的 have retrospectively 研究 the results 星狀 radiotherapy for 的 grade astrocytoma, 因子 define the 治療 of postoperative 回顧 in the 材料 of low 年 astrocytoma. Materials 共有 Methods: From 星狀 to 1988, 的 adult patients 在 low grade 庚 received postoperative 術 in Chang 治療 Memorial Hospital-Linkou 從 Center. The 歲 age of 是 patients was 位 years old 女性 the range 病理 15 to 這些 There were 位 male and 第一 female. According 第二 the Kernohan's 病人 system, 10 完全 tumors belonged 位 grade 1 切除 the others 另 to grade 接受 Eleven patients 並沒有 total removal 開刀 tumors, 17 患者 received subtotal 很 of tumors, 行動 18 patients ) biopsy only. 都 patients had 電子 performance status 的 scale ＞ 治療 after operation. 從 radiotherapy, the 劑量 total dose 值 6000 cGy 患者 each patient, 便 from 4400 治療 6600 cGy. 的 patient received 女性 at the 患者 The overall 好 year survival ( 49%. Female 年齡 better survival 或 male (54% 歲者 24%, p=O.O15). 的 patients had 較 results than 結果 patients (47% ) 30%, p0.04). 屬 with grade 比 tumors had 預後較 survival than . with grade 範圍 tumors (69% 並不影響 30%, p=O.O4). 但 received excision 切除 had better 只 rate (44% 者 32 %, 好 but the 存活率 of surgery ) not make 放射 difference. Total 的 dose did 預後並 significantly change 的 survival result. 根據 The low 的 astrocytoma patients 低惡 poor survival 細胞瘤 after radiotherapy, 術 for patients 治療 grade II 並不佳 To properly 第二 patients with 的 astrocytorma is 差 more important 更 than to 的 the incidence 應是 radiation complications.
Purpose: 目的 got no 腦瘤 about the 後 of low 尤其 glioma, especially 細胞瘤 the low 是 astrocytoma. We 的 retrospectively reviewed 研究 results of 星狀 for low 的 astrocytoma, and 因子 the role 治療 postoperative radiotherapy 回顧 the treatment 材料 low grade 年 Materials and 共有 From 1979 星狀 1988, 46 的 patients with 在 grade astrocytoma 庚 postoperative radiotherapy 術 Chang Gung 治療 Hospital-Linkou Medical 從 The median 歲 of these 是 was 32 位 old with 女性 range from 病理 to 63. 這些 were 25 位 and 21 第一 According to 第二 Kernohan's grading 病人 10 patients' 完全 belonged to 位 1 and 切除 others belonged 另 grade 2. 接受 patients received 並沒有 removal of 開刀 17 patients 患者 subtotal excision 很 tumors, and 行動 patients received ) only. All 都 had good 電子 status (Karnofsky 的 ＞ 70) 治療 operation. For 從 the median 劑量 dose was 值 cGy on 患者 patient, ranging 便 4400 to 治療 cGy. No 的 received chemotherapy 女性 the beginning.
Result: 患者 overall 5 好 survival was ( Female had 年齡 survival than 或 (54% vs 歲者 p=O.O15). Younger 的 had better 較 than older 結果 (47% vs ) p0.04). Patients 屬 grade I 比 had better 預後較 than patients . grade Ii 範圍 (69% vs 並不影響 p=O.O4). Patients 但 excision surgery 切除 better survival 只 (44% vs 者 %, p=0.05), 好 the extent 存活率 surgery did ) make the 放射 Total radiation 的 did not 預後並 change the 的 result. 
Discussion: 根據 low grade 的 patients showed 低惡 survival rate 細胞瘤 radiotherapy, especially 術 patients with 治療 II tumor. 並不佳 properly treat 第二 with low-grade 的 is a 差 important issue 更 to consider 的 incidence of 應是 complications.
目的 To re-evaluate 評估 appropriateness of 放射 radiotherapy (AT) 治療 patients with 於 non-small coil 晚期 cancer (NSCLC).
Materials 非小細胞 Methods: This 肺癌 study included 之適 patients with 當性 NSCLC registered 材料 Mackay Memorial 方法 from July 共有 to Juno 名 Thoracic RT 病患 given with 年 or palliative 月 depending on 至 stage and/or 間 status at 到 to 63 馬 AT group) 偕 had withheld 醫院 26 (the 求診 group). The 其中 dose to 曾 primary tumor 接受 in the 放射 of 5000-6000 治療 at 180 位則否 per fraction 對 5-6.5 weeks. 於 control was 第三期 defined as 病患 disappearance of 將給予 on all 胸腔 examinations and/or 治療 evidence of 而 clinically at 第四期 last follow 之 No survival 則只 was noted 針對 the AT 轉移 compared to 或 non-AT group 引起 3.0 vs. 之症 months). The 狀給予 survival time 治療 patients with 結果 Ill disease 相對 11.37 ± 沒 months and 有 survival time 接受 8 months. 放射 control rate 的 the AT 病人 was poor 比較 only 4 起來 63 (6%) 非小細胞 on the 肺癌 follow up. 病人 of four 放射 who were 治療 died of 並沒有 pneumonitis about 存活率 months after 之 of AT. 優點 addition, one 結論 with stage 放射 was still 治療 undergoing chemotherapy 並 distant metastasis.
Conclusion: 不能 RT did 晚期 prolong survival 非小細胞 patients with 肺癌 advanced NSCLC.
Purpose: 目的 re-evaluate the 評估 of thoracic 放射 (AT) for 治療 with advanced 於 coil lung 晚期 (NSCLC).
Materials and 非小細胞 This retrospective 肺癌 included 89 之適 with advanced 當性 registered in 材料 Memorial Hospital 方法 July 1992 共有 Juno 1997. 名 RT was 病患 with radical 年 palliative intent 月 on the 至 and/or performance 間 at diagnosis 到 63 (the 馬 group) but 偕 withheld in 醫院 (the non-AT 求診 The total 其中 to the 曾 tumor was 接受 the range 放射 5000-6000 cGy 治療 180 cGy 位則否 fraction over 對 weeks. Tumor 於 was strictly 第三期 as complete 病患 of tumor 將給予 all radiographic 胸腔 and/or no 治療 of disease 而 at the 第四期 follow up.
Results: 之 survival advantage 則只 noted in 針對 AT group 轉移 to the 或 group (median 引起 vs. 5.5 之症 The mean 狀給予 time of 治療 with stage 結果 disease was 相對 ± 1.94 沒 and median 有 time was 接受 months. The 放射 rate in 的 AT group 病人 poor with 比較 4 of 起來 (6%) disease-free 非小細胞 the last 肺癌 up. One 病人 four patients 放射 were disease-free 治療 of radiation 並沒有 about 3 存活率 after complete 之 AT. In 優點 one patient 結論 stage lllb 放射 still alive, 治療 chemotherapy for 並 metastasis.
Conclusion: Thoracic 不能 did not 晚期 survival for 非小細胞 with locally 肺癌 NSCLC.
目的 Hepatoma is 目前 of the 惡性 prevalent male 的 in Taiwan. 敘述 paper investigates 藥物少 interaction mechanism, 上標 formulation and 治療 of 5-[(superscript 備 as a 材料 radiopharmaceutical for 法 and cancers 自行 and Methods: ' self-synthesized 5-ributylstannyl-2’-deoxyuridine 為 used as 放射性 precursor, was 反應 to produce 適量 125)I/(superscript 131)I]IUdR. 濃縮 adding the [ gentisic acid, ) resultant reaction ] was dispensed 成品 lyophilized to 之 the [(superscrip 上標 131)I]IUdR hot 上標 The lyophilized 小瓶 125)I/(superscript 131)I]IUdR 前 kit was 食鹽 with an 溶液 amount of 之 saline or 濃度 prior to 或 hepatoma treatment 腫瘤 The radiochemical 二種 for the 溶液 formulation was 均 than 97%. 本 gentisic acid 一系列 used as 上標 stabilizer, the 上標 of [(superscript 試驗 131)I]IUdR was 添加 increased, and 上標 stability of 上標 form is 或 better than 均 of solution 貯存 A stable 凍晶 [(superscript 125)I/(superscript 安定性 with high 成品 purity and 研究 activity was 之 in this 上標 Its use ) preclinieal and 放射 studies on 安定性 and cancers 提供 will be 或 out in 腫瘤 further investigation.
Purpose: 目的 is one 目前 the most 惡性 male cancers 的 Taiwan. This 敘述 investigates the 藥物少 mechanism, preparation, 上標 and stability 治療 5-[(superscript 125)I/(superscript131)I]-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine 備 a potential 材料 for hepatoma 法 cancers treatment.
Materials 自行 Methods: The ' 5-ributylstannyl-2’-deoxyuridine (Bu3SnUdR), 為 as a 放射性 was radioiodinated 反應 produce [(superscript 適量 131)I]IUdR. After 濃縮 the stabilizer, [ acid, the ) reaction mixture ] dispensed and 成品 to give 之 [(superscrip 125)I/(superscrip 上標 hot kits.
Results: 上標 lyophilized [(superscript 小瓶 131)I]IUdR hot 前 was added 食鹽 an appropriate 溶液 of normal 之 or lipiodol 濃度 to preclinieal 或 treatment studies. 腫瘤 radiochemical purity 二種 the studied 溶液 was higher 均 97%. When 本 acid was 一系列 as a 上標 the stability 上標 [(superscript 125)I/(superscript 試驗 was significantly 添加 and the 上標 of lyophilized 上標 is far 或 than that 均 solution form.
Conclusion: 貯存 stable radiopharmaceutical 凍晶 125)I/(superscript 131)I]IUdR 安定性 high radioehemical 成品 and specific 研究 was prepared 之 this study. 上標 use for ) and clinical 放射 on hepatoma 安定性 cancers therapy 提供 be carried 或 in the 腫瘤 investigation.
目的 To evaluate 本科 quantify the 盆腔 using a 使用 custom-made pelvis 治療 device during 及其 course of 與 and Methods: 自 new custom-made 骨 immobilization cast 裝置 been developed 病人 provide a 及 and comfort 姿勢 of the 一 It consists 的 a flat 及熱 rigid acrylic 有 and thermoplastic 使用 Eight patients 日內 pelvic cast 電子式 evaluated by 系統 line electronic ) imaging during 中 radiotherapy treatment 時 5 to 十位 consecutive days. 使用 another 10 為 without pelvic 總共取 were used 影像 a control. 處理 total of 協助 electronic portal 互動 (EPI) were 方式 Under the 影像 of image 照野 software, the 幾何 errors from 一步 EPI was 一位 by interactive 系 The systematic 任意 random setup 採用 for each 裝置 were determined.
Results: 明顯 set-up variation 的 markedly improved 誤差 the cast. 比 total directed 病人 errors for ( patients in ( (AP), left-right ( and inferior-superior 的 directions were 使用 mm, -0.4±1.2 分別 and -0.3 平方 mm respectively 公厘 cast as 沒有 to -0.4±2.4 裝置 1.2±1.9 mm 平方 -1.1±3.8 mm 公厘 without cast. 根據 suggested margin, 計算 was calculated 前 to the ) undirected setup ( for each 左右 in AP/PA 照野 lateral fields 有 more than 公厘 mm were 的 in 14% 固定 33% of 為 with casts 使用 compared to 分別 and 89% 前後照 patients without 左右 cast. (p 較 = 0.065 為 AP/PA fields 此 p value 式 0.024 for 固定 fields)
Conclusion: This 於 pelvic immobilization 腫瘤 appears to 治療 the reproducibility 病人 patient setup 的 radiotherapy for 性 tumors. In 自前 to 3-D 性 radiotherapy, this 本科 of immobilization 順形 now routinely 我們 in our 能夠 and is 所有 for all 的 receiving pelvic radiotherapy.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate and 本科 the accuracy 盆腔 a new 使用 pelvis immobilization 治療 during the 及其 of radiotherapy.
Materials 與 Methods: A 自 custom-made pelvic 骨 cast had 裝置 developed to 病人 a stable 及 comfort position 姿勢 the patients. 一 consists of 的 flat and 及熱 acrylic plate 有 thermoplastic cast. 使用 patients with 日內 cast were 電子式 by on 系統 electronic portal ) during daily 中 treatment for 時 to 8 十位 days. While 使用 10 patients 為 pelvic casts 總共取 used as 影像 control. A 處理 of 221 協助 portal imaging 互動 were reviewed. 方式 the assistance 影像 image registration 照野 the geometric 幾何 from the 一步 was identified 一位 interactive techniques. 系 systematic and 任意 setup errors 採用 each patient 裝置 determined.
Results: Daily 明顯 variation was 的 improved using 誤差 cast. The 比 directed setup 病人 for all ( in anterior-posterior ( left-right (LR) ( inferior-superior (IS) 的 were -0.1±2.2 使用 -0.4±1.2 mm 分別 -0.3 ±2.0 平方 respectively with 公厘 as compared 沒有 -0.4±2.4 mm, 裝置 mm and 平方 mm respectively 公厘 cast. The 根據 margin, which 計算 calculated according 前 the total ) setup error ( each patient, 左右 AP/PA and 照野 fields for 有 than 5 公厘 were found 的 14% and 固定 of patients 為 casts as 使用 to 60% 分別 89% of 前後照 without immobilization 左右 (p value 較 0.065 for 為 fields and 此 value = 式 for lateral 固定 This custom-made 於 immobilization cast 腫瘤 to improve 治療 reproducibility of 病人 setup during 的 for pelvic 性 In application 自前 3-D conformal 性 this type 本科 immobilization is 順形 routinely used 我們 our department 能夠 is recommended 所有 all patients 的 pelvic radiotherapy.
目的 The important 空間 of 3-D 計劃 treatment planning 計算 (3-D RTP) 劑量 test procedure 與 is to 來 the reasonable 合理 between the 過程 isodose distribution 重要 3-D RTP 是 the measured 放射 of water 重要 before the 方法 use of . RTP system.
Materials 作一驗 Methods: This 之誤 is a 以及 test results 床上 Computerized Medical 可行 - Focus 軟休 and Helax-TMS 包括 Acceptance test 影像 includes hardware 本身 software. Hardware ) the function 的 the link 及 Network system, ( function of 與 image transfer 有 the accuracy 射束 the digitizer, ( magnification and 曲線 of the ) the function ( the printer 對 the patient 射東 backup facility. ( includes the ) of percentage ) dose for ( beam and 塊 electron beam, 多 distribution check ) beam profile 劑量 The comparisons 電子 photon beam 分 open-field, wedge-field, 也 asymmetric jaws, 由 bolus, inhomogeneities, 是 and Multi-Leaf 影像 MLC). The 院內 oblique incidence 系統 also one 影像 the test 設施 For Helax-TMS, 逐一 the field 於 is more 操作 20×20, the 而言 horn effect 若照 be increased, × maximum dose 應 about 2%. 增大 about 3% 劑量 deviation of 濾板 and 60° 過大 filter of × field size ° than 10×10. 約 penumbra error 鉛 block and 多 is 2-3 的 compared with 水假 phantom data, 大約 CMS-Focus, the 之誤 effect is 在 of field 鳥 and the 不 deviation about 野 The field 有所 of wedge 差值 can open 之劑 a maximum 在 20 cm 至 the dose 檔塊 is 2%. 準直 penumbra error 區則 block and 差 compared to 以上 phantom, about 結果 mm.
Conclusion: In 影像 the functions 之運作 network and 佈 image-transfer are 在 and the 可 distribution discrepancies 內 also acceptable 本院 the clinical 於 treatment application.
Purpose: 目的 important subject 空間 3-D radiotherapy 計劃 planning system 計算 RTP) acceptance 劑量 procedure (ATP) 與 to get 來 reasonable agreement 合理 the calculated 過程 distribution of 重要 RTP and 是 measured results 放射 water phantom, 重要 the clinical 方法 of 3-D . system.
Materials & 作一驗 This report 之誤 a acceptance 以及 results of 床上 Medical System 可行 Focus 1.4.0 軟休 Helax-TMS 4.0. 包括 test procedure 影像 hardware and 本身 Hardware includes ) function of 的 link of 及 system, the ( of the 與 transfer system, 有 accuracy of 射束 digitizer, the ( and accuracy 曲線 the plotter, ) function of ( printer and 對 patient data 射東 facility. Software ( the comparison ) percentage depth ) for photon ( and for 塊 beam, isodose 多 check and ) profile check. 劑量 comparisons of 電子 beam include 分 wedge-field, half-beam, 也 jaws, irregular-field, 由 inhomogeneities, block-field 是 Multi-Leaf Collimator 影像 The electron 院內 incidence is 系統 one of 影像 test items.
Results: 設施 Helax-TMS, if 逐一 field size 於 more than 操作 the open-field 而言 effect will 若照 increased, the × dose deviation 應 2%. It's 增大 3% dose 劑量 of 45° 濾板 60° wedge 過大 of the × size more ° 10×10. The 約 error of 鉛 and MLC 多 2-3 mm 的 with water 水假 data, For 大約 the horn 之誤 is independent 在 field size 鳥 the dose 不 about 2%. 野 field size 有所 wedge filter 差值 open to 之劑 maximum of 在 cm and 至 dose deviation 檔塊 2%. The 準直 error of 區則 and MLC, 差 to water 以上 about 1-2 結果 In conclusion, 影像 functions of 之運作 and include 佈 are acceptable 在 the isodose 可 discrepancies are 內 acceptable for 本院 clinical radiotherapy 於 application.
目的 The percentage 以 dose changes 針對 high energy 壁式 beams generated 尺寸 Varian CL2100C/D 長 accelerator collerated 變化 various sizes 遮檔 cutout blocks 射源 measured at 表面 source-to-surface distance. 小照 clinical significance 深度 discussed.
Materials and 觀察並 CERROBEND cutout 野面積 were made 深度 open-wall MLC 之 applicators. The 臨床 size of 事項 square cutout 方法 1 cm. 依各限光 percentage depth 製 curve were 長 with Nucletron 正方形 water phantom 塊 connected with － p-type semiconductor 電子 The electron 以 were ranged 連接 6, 9, 偵測器 16 and 照野電子 MeV. The 分別 of D(subscript 百分 D90, D80 曲線 R(subscript p) 能量 measured to 最高 its variation ( cutout size.
Results: 劑量點 depths of 及 max) were ) at 0.5 情形 0.8cm at 劑量點 cutout size ) to 1x1 深度 for all 為 The decrement 積縮 of the 所有 parameters for 之 energy were 點皆位 same in 不論 cone sizes. 為何 decrement cutout 變化 were 3x3 從 for 6 從 4.5x4.5 cm^2 從 9 MeV, ^ cm^2 for 結論 MeV 8x8 以 for 16 鉛 and 10.5x10.5 小照 for 20 治療 The depth 劑量點 90% and 深度 depth dose 臨 shift to 決定 direction when 若照 irradiate area 於 decreased. It 各劑 mentioned clinically 點時 the 90% 治療 should be 查得 before energy 深度 for tumor treatment.
Purpose: 目的 percentage depth 以 changes of 針對 energy electron 壁式 generated from 尺寸 CL2100C/D linear 長 collerated with 變化 sizes of 遮檔 blocks were 射源 at 100cm 表面 distance. The 小照 significance was 深度 and Methods: 觀察並 cutout blocks 野面積 made for 深度 MLC type 之 The step 臨床 of the 事項 cutout is 方法 cm. The 依各限光 depth dose 製 were scanned 長 Nucletron 3-D 正方形 phantom system 塊 with Scanditronix － semiconductor chamber. 電子 electron energies 以 ranged from 連接 9, 12, 偵測器 and 20 照野電子 The depths 分別 D(subscript max), 百分 D80 and 曲線 p) were 能量 to observed 最高 variation with ( size.
Results: The 劑量點 of D(subscript 及 were located ) 0.5 to 情形 at the 劑量點 size equal ) 1x1 cm^2 深度 all energies. 為 decrement points 積縮 the four 所有 for each 之 were the 點皆位 in all 不論 sizes. The 為何 cutout sizes 變化 3x3 cm^2 從 6 MeV, 從 cm^2 for 從 MeV, 6x6 ^ for 12 結論 8x8 cm^2 以 16 MeV 鉛 10.5x10.5 cm^2 小照 20 MeV.
Conclusions: 治療 depth of 劑量點 and 80% 深度 dose will 臨 to surface 決定 when the 若照 area was 於 It is 各劑 clinically that 點時 90% depth 治療 be examined 查得 energy selection 深度 tumor treatment.
目的 To determinate 研究 effects of 手術 beam radiation 的 for patients 體外 retinoblastoma.
Materials and 之 Between May 自 to February 二月 9 patients 眼睛 eyes) with 病人 retinoblastoma (St. 放射 Children's Research 了 Classification) received 女孩 beam radiotherapy 有 The mean 的 at diagnosis 診斷 25.8 months 月 6 males 放射 3females. Four 體外 9 patients 能量 bilateral retinoblastoma. ( doses ranged 量 30 GY-60 每天 (mean 47.1 疾病 median 51.0 . in 1.8-2.0 的 fractions by 位 electron or 已有 beam. Eight 或遠端 had been 化學 chemotherapy.
Results: At 至 follow up 個 20.5 months 個 7.1-115.5 months), 失敗 local failure 轉移 3-year disease ; survival rate 為 3-year overall 無病 rate of ( 25.9%, and 位 were obtained.
Conclusion: 一 concluded that 搖動 beam radiotherapy 位 is an 手指 treatment in 診斷 control for 是 advanced non-operative 最 In our 是 the tumor 細胞瘤 locally controlled 以體 10 eyes 第一 patients). Distant 合 was the 腫瘤 failure in 及 patients. Primary 眼球 was used 則 maintain normal 復 salvage treatment 性 enucleation is 遺症 But longer 更長 time is needed.
Purpose: 目的 determinate the 研究 of external 手術 radiation alone 的 patients with 體外 and Methods: 之 May 1988 自 February 1997, 二月 patients (13 眼睛 with non-operative 病人 (St. Jude 放射 Research Hospital 了 received external 女孩 radiotherapy alone. 有 mean age 的 diagnosis was 診斷 months with 月 males and 放射 Four of 體外 patients had 能量 retinoblastoma. Radiation ( ranged from 量 GY-60 GY 每天 47.1 GY, 疾病 51.0 Gy) . 1.8-2.0 GY 的 by using 位 or photon 已有 Eight patients 或遠端 been received 化學 At median 至 up of 個 months (range 個 months), the 失敗 failure rate, 轉移 disease free ; rate and 為 overall survival 無病 of 23.1%, ( and 56.3% 位 obtained.
Conclusion: We 一 that external 搖動 radiotherapy alone 位 an efficient 手指 in local 診斷 for local 是 non-operative retinoblastoma. 最 our series, 是 tumor was 細胞瘤 controlled in 以體 eyes (7 第一 Distant metastasis 合 the major 腫瘤 in these 及 Primary radiotherapy 眼球 used to 則 normal vision, 復 treatment by 性 is suggested. 遺症 longer follow-up 更長 is needed.
目的 For the 兩側 of many 放射 and neck 頭頸部 bilateral parallel 治療 fields have 相當 used for 與 treatment. Because 治療 thickness of 差異 and anterior 計劃 of neck 體積 be different, 分 study is 勻 evaluate the 並發展 nonuniformity within 的 volume and 組織 introduce a 運用 application model 改善 tissue compensator 的 improve the 材料 nonuniformity for 方法 bilateral treatment.
Materials 例因頭 methods: We 而 the data 兩側 twelve cases 之 head and 舌癌 tumors (4 癌 cancers, 4 例 cancers, and 的 rest are 及 cancer). They 以電腦 bilateral parallel 分析 fields or 寬度 treatment. The 點定 of head 照野 neck was ( from CT 寬度 the reference 點定 of the 椎 of head 交界 defined at 治療 center, and 延伸 reference points 參考點 the thickness 於 were defined 攝影時 cross-section of 頸部 interface, 2 減少區域 from anterior 片子 of neck 經由電腦 point A), 分析 cm anterior 頸 (reference point 以標 During simulation, 截面 area with 脊椎骨 deficit was 當作 and was 底邊 on CT 可量 If the 案例 along the 三角型 border of 角度 body was θ as the 裂作 of a 單一 we can 的 the base 結果 θ of 的 neck. Following 基準 and analysis 劑量 angle θ 情況 different sections 高出 CT scan, 之處 sets of ( were made.
Results: 的 the given 是 was normalized ~ the center 癌 radiation field, ) average percentage 為 overdose of ) neck was 高出 following: reference 點之處 A, 13.7% 的 for tongue 分別 7.4% (5.8~9.9) ~ hypopharyngeal cancer, 癌 (12.4~14.4) for ) cancer; reference ( B, 11.7% ) 5.4% (4.0~6.7), 標示區 10.1% (7.4~13.1) 不 The degree 數都落 angle θ 至 different cross-sections 度為 anterior neck 單位 all within 例 range of 平均值 to 55°. 度 the interval 為 5 degree 平均值 a unit, 而個 mean degree 了 angle θ 斜度 45°for 9cases, 及 2 cases, 套裝 40°for one 後 After the 部劑 of compensator 過高 simple slope(40°, 已有 and 50°), 改善 overdose of 腫瘤 neck has 行大範圍 substantially improved.
Conclusion: 兩側 bilateral parallel 評估 fields are 治療 for the 較 treatment of 點給 neck tumors, 為 dose nonuniformity 無法針 anterior portion 一個 neck should 作 assessed. If 個 overdose was 補 and it 本文 impossible to 簡易 tissue compensator 組織 by case, 的 simple application 作為 of tissue 劑量 for anterior 的 can be considered.
Purpose: 目的 the radiotherapy 兩側 many head 放射 neck tumors, 頭頸部 parallel opposed 治療 have been 相當 for initial 與 Because the 治療 of head 差異 anterior portion 計劃 neck may 體積 different, our 分 is to 勻 the dose 並發展 within target 的 and to 組織 a simple 運用 model of 改善 compensator to 的 the dose 材料 for the 方法 treatment.
Materials and 例因頭 We analyzed 而 data of 兩側 cases with 之 and neck 舌癌 (4 tongue 癌 4 hypopharyngeal 例 and the 的 are nasopharyngeal 及 They received 以電腦 parallel opposed 分析 or initial 寬度 The thickness 點定 head and 照野 was estimated ( CT scan, 寬度 reference point 點定 the thickness 椎 head was 交界 at field 治療 and the 延伸 points of 參考點 thickness of 於 defined at 攝影時 of C3-C4 頸部 2 cm 減少區域 anterior margin 片子 neck (reference 經由電腦 A), 3 分析 anterior margin 頸 point B). 以標 simulation, the 截面 with significant 脊椎骨 was delineated, 當作 was analyzed 底邊 CT scan. 可量 the line 案例 the anterior 三角型 of vertebral 角度 was defined θ the base 裂作 a triangle, 單一 can find 的 base angle 結果 of anterior 的 Following measurcment 基準 analysis of 劑量 θ of 情況 sections on 高出 scan, several 之處 of compensator ( made.
Results: If 的 given dose 是 normalized at ~ center of 癌 field, the ) percentage of 為 of anterior ) was as 高出 reference point 點之處 13.7% (10.0~166.6) 的 tongue cancer, 分別 (5.8~9.9) for ~ cancer, 13.6% 癌 for nasopharyngeal ) reference point ( 11.7% (9.5~14.7), ) (4.0~6.7), and 標示區 (7.4~13.1) respectively. 不 degree of 數都落 θ at 至 cross-sections of 度為 neck were 單位 within the 例 of 35° 平均值 55°. With 度 interval of 為 degree as 平均值 unit, the 而個 degree of 了 θ is 斜度 9cases, 50°for 及 cases, and 套裝 one case. 後 the application 部劑 compensator with 過高 slope(40°, 45°, 已有 50°), the 改善 of anterior 腫瘤 has been 行大範圍 improved.
Conclusion: When 兩側 parallel opposed 評估 are used 治療 the initial 較 of head 點給 tumors, the 為 nonuniformity of 無法針 portion of 一個 should be 作 If significant 個 was noted 補 it is 本文 to make 簡易 compensator case 組織 case, the 的 application model 作為 tissue compensator 劑量 anterior neck 的 be considered.
目的 Evaluating 5-year 上 rates of 竇癌 sinus squamous 治療 carcinoma treated 結果 different methods.
Materials 方法 Methods: From 至 to 1991, 個 patients of 竇 sinus squamous 細胞 carcinoma were 個 in our ( There were 是 patients with ( (18%) disease 是 50 patients 病人 T4 (82%) 放射 Eighteen patients 病人 were treated 後 radiotherapy alone 放射 32 patients 病人 by combined 併 and radiotherapy 竇造 and 11 及 (18.0%) by 脤 radiotherapy with 化學 5-FU infusion 結果 and antrostomy 病人 (CRT).
Results: Five-year 存活率 rates were 為 34.4% and 明顯 in RT, 差別 and CRT 時 respectively. Statistical 淋巴 difference (p＜0.05) 病人 survival rates 五年 noted. Regional 較 nodal metastasis 轉移 initial diagnosis 明顯 significant worse 多 results than 分析 NO state 性別 vs. 36.2%, 淋巴 Multivariate analysis 為 that treatment 預 sex and 因子 stages significantly 合 the 5-year 比 rate.
Conclusion: Combined 放射 was superior 較 radiotherapy alone 的 5-year survival rates.
Purpose: 目的 5-year survival 上 of maxillary 竇癌 squamous cell 治療 treated by 結果 methods.
Materials and 方法 From 1997 至 1991, 61 個 of maxillary 竇 squamous cell 細胞 were included 個 our study. ( were 11 是 with T3 ( disease and 是 patients with 病人 (82%) disease. 放射 patients (29.5%) 病人 treated by 後 alone (RT), 放射 patients (52.5%) 病人 combined surgery 併 radiotherapy (SRT) 竇造 11 patients 及 by combined 脤 with intra-arterial 化學 infusion chemotherapy 結果 antrostomy drainage 病人 Five-year survival 存活率 were 5.6%, 為 and 54.5% 明顯 RT, SRT 差別 CRT groups, 時 Statistical significant 淋巴 (p＜0.05) of 病人 rates was 五年 Regional neck 較 metastasis at 轉移 diagnosis carried 明顯 worse survival 多 than initial 分析 state (7.1% 性別 36.2%, p=0.0003). 淋巴 analysis revealed 為 treatment methods, 預 and N 因子 significantly influenced 合 5-year survival 比 Combined treatment 放射 superior to 較 alone in 的 survival rates.
目的 To present 本院 experience in 部自 treatment of 治療 sinuses cancer 鼻 radiotherapy.
Materials and 成效 Between 1968 方法 1996, 83 研究 with cancer 共 paranasal sinuses 本院 radiotherapy in 放射 Radiation Oncology 副 of the 病患 General Hospital. 病患 of the 照射 were treated 從 Co-60 gamma 中數 A Cs-137 採用 unit was 方法 in 7% 採用 the patients 預 the 60's. 採用 median prescribed 差異 dose was 顯著 GY with 本院 range of 治療 GY and 副 daily fraction 病患 was 1.8-2.0 為 5 fractions 為 week. Survival 治療 calculated using 根除 Kaplan-Meier actuarial 顯示 Differences between 較 curves were 年 using the 放射 rank test.
Results: 之後腫瘤 5- and 佔 survivals are 佔 and 30.9%, 復 Patients receiving 遠處 surgery before 藉由 showed a 影像 5-year survival. 幫助 complete response 其 is 30% 年 partial response 但 is 22% 之 our study ) radiotherapy. The 併 local failure 口乾 distant metastasis 緊閉 are about 局部 and 13%. 流鼻血 correlation could 眼盲 made between 床上 survival and 到 staging group, 於 sex in 的 study. The 位置 of improved 有 by the 竇癌 of CT 侵犯 is not 之 in our 原發 (p=0.2867). Late 以上 are not 篩 including xerostomia, 常見 headache, local 及 and swelling, 單獨 conjunctival congestion, 作為 blindness.
Conclusion: All 的 the patients 往往 our study 差之預 the tumor 也 more than 不易 site. The 傳統 and ethmoid 達到 were the 癒 common primary 於 sites in 以 study (81.7% 之 14.6%). Patients 鼻 radiotherapy alone 傳統 relative poor 其 factors and 控制率 cure was 理想 achieved by 多種 radiotherapy alone 的 most patients. 如 view of 多分 poor local 照射 for advanced 三度 paranasal sinuses 放射 and relative 提高 morbidity with 計量 irradiation, we 正常 conducted cancer 合 relative low 放射 with standard-dose 治療 we have 新 dose escalation 治療 hyperfractionation regiment 獲得 CT based 效果 conformal treatment 短期 in recent 之 Concurrent chemo-irradiation 昇 be a reasonable approach.
Purpose: 目的 present our 本院 in the 部自 of paranasal 治療 cancer using 鼻 and Methods: 成效 1968 and 方法 83 patients 研究 cancer of 共 sinuses received 本院 in the 放射 Oncology department 副 the Tri-Service 病患 Hospital. Most 病患 the patients 照射 treated using 從 gamma irradiation. 中數 Cs-137 teletherapy 採用 was used 方法 7% of 採用 patients in 預 60's. The 採用 prescribed tumor 差異 was 70 顯著 with a 本院 of 60~130 治療 and the 副 fraction size 病患 1.8-2.0 Gy, 為 fractions per 為 Survival was 治療 using the 根除 actuarial method. 顯示 between survival 較 were compared 年 the log 放射 test.
Results: The 之後腫瘤 and 10-year 佔 are 53.0% 佔 30.9%, respectively. 復 receiving radical 遠處 before radiotherapy 藉由 a better 影像 survival. The 幫助 response rate 其 30% and 年 response rate 但 22% in 之 study after ) The overall 併 failure and 口乾 metastasis rate 緊閉 about 35% 局部 13%. No 流鼻血 could be 眼盲 between the 床上 and histology, 到 group, and 於 in our 的 The magnitude 位置 improved survival 有 the aid 竇癌 CT scanning 侵犯 not significant 之 our study 原發 Late complications 以上 not common, 篩 xerostomia, trismus, 常見 local tenderness 及 swelling, epistaxis, 單獨 congestion, and 作為 All of 的 patients in 往往 study had 差之預 tumor involving 也 than one 不易 The maxillary 傳統 ethmoid sinuses 達到 the most 癒 primary tumor 於 in our 以 (81.7% and 之 Patients receiving 鼻 alone had 傳統 poor prognostic 其 and the 控制率 was not 理想 by conventional 多種 alone in 的 patients. In 如 of the 多分 local control 照射 advanced unresectable 三度 sinuses cancer 放射 relative low 提高 with standard-dose 計量 we have 正常 cancer and 合 low morbidity 放射 standard-dose irradiation, 治療 have conducted 新 escalation using 治療 regiment and 獲得 based 3-D 效果 treatment planning 短期 recent years. 之 chemo-irradiation may 昇 a reasonable approach.
目的 To review 脊椎 treatment results 根壓 lymphoma with 初始 presentation of 患者 cord or 治療 equina compression.
Materials 與 Methods: Lymphoma 從 cord or 二十年 equina compression 本院 initial presentation 脊椎 seen in 神經 patients in 初始 hospital between 之 to 1996. 其中 them, six 例原發 presented with 侵犯 IE primary 而 epidurl involvement, 三 the others 例 stage ⅡE, 例 and ⅣE 淋巴瘤 (1 patient 例 Except for 外 Hodgkin's lymphoma 病患 one lymphosarcoma, 何杰金 of the 淋巴瘤 patients were 分類 lymphoma with 分多屬 histologic grading, 減壓 were the 後 grade classification 接受 to the 位 Formulation. After 接受 surgery, the 其餘 treatments of 接受 patients were 放射 (2 patients), 治療 (1 patient), 於 combination of 驅期 treatment modalities 有 patients).
Results: A 個 phase of 背痛 back pain 發生 in all 之 with duration 壓迫 1 to 後 months, followed 的 a second 完全 of rapidly 後 signs of 位死 compression. After 之 5 patients 位死 complete remission: 疾病 with, one 轉移 of chemotherapy 至今 one died 疾病 intercurrent disease, 象 had distant 位 and only 的 patients remained 則全 free. The 亡故 4 patients 上 got partial 硬膜 were all 為 of this 症狀 Lymphoma with 是 epidural or 進行 involvement at 疾病 presentation is 的 aggressive disease. 併 intensive treatment 放射 with irradiation, 以 and surgery, 較 suggested in 局部 to achieve 及 local control 一般 longterm survival.
Purpose: 目的 review the 脊椎 results of 根壓 with initial 初始 of spinal 患者 or cauda 治療 compression.
Materials and 與 Lymphoma with 從 or cauda 二十年 compression as 本院 presentation were 脊椎 in 9 神經 in our 初始 between 1977 之 1996. Among 其中 six patients 例原發 with stage 侵犯 primary spinal 而 involvement, whereas 三 others has 例 ⅡE, ⅢE 例 ⅣE disease 淋巴瘤 patient each). 例 for one 外 lymphoma and 病患 lymphosarcoma, all 何杰金 the other 淋巴瘤 were non-Hodgkin's 分類 with unfavorable 分多屬 grading, mostly 減壓 the intermediate 後 classification according 接受 the Warking 位 After decompression 接受 the subsequent 其餘 of these 接受 were radiotherapy 放射 patients), chemotherapy 治療 patient), and 於 of both 驅期 modalities (6 有 A prodromal 個 of local 背痛 pain occurred 發生 all patients, 之 duration from 壓迫 to 10 後 followed by 的 second phase 完全 rapidly progressive 後 of cord 位死 After treatment, 之 patients achieved 位死 remission: among 疾病 one died 轉移 chemotherapy complication, 至今 died of 疾病 disease, one 象 distant metastasis, 位 only 2 的 remained disease 則全 The other 亡故 patients who 上 partial remission 硬膜 all dead 為 this disease.
Conclusion: 症狀 with spinal 是 or intradural 進行 at initial 疾病 is an 的 disease. An 併 treatment combination 放射 irradiation, chemotherapy, 以 surgery, is 較 in order 局部 achieve good 及 control and 一般 survival.
目的 To measure 電腦 evaluate the 影像 resolution, contrast 解析度 and noise 及雜 computed tomography 到 image in 治療 to meet 與 requirement of 斷層 radiation therapy.
Materials 標準 methods: Elscint 假體 Ⅱ CT 電腦 head and 及雜 phantom were 空間 to measure 標準 evaluate the 針狀層 quality of 的 tomography simulator. 及 used the 後 phantom includes 參數 rows of 值作 diameter perspex 比 (multipin layer) 頭部 do the 中五個 resolution comparisons, 斷層 another five 與 material layer 乃是 this head 身體 were also 電腦 to do 上 contrast resolution 出 The noise 經過 used the 是否 and body 標準 through the 空間 function key 在 find its 解析度 errors in 以外 to meet 以內 requirement of 的 radiation therapy.
Conclusions: 所得 quality assurance 以內 of this 量測 tomography simulation 此部 system had 掃 setup before 解析度 using. It 及雜 met the 標準值 of precision 於 therapy. To 之用 the image 此部 it also 需要 measurement periodically.
Purpose: 目的 measure and 電腦 the spatial 影像 contrast resolution 解析度 noise of 及雜 tomography simulation 到 in order 治療 meet the 與 of precision 斷層 therapy.
Materials and 標準 Elscint HeliCAT 假體 CT scanner 電腦 and body 及雜 were used 空間 measure and 標準 the image 針狀層 of computed 的 simulator. We 及 the head 後 includes seven 參數 of different 值作 perspex layer 比 layer) to 頭部 the spatial 中五個 comparisons, and 斷層 five different 與 layer of 乃是 head phantom 身體 also used 電腦 do the 上 resolution comparisons. 出 noise was 經過 the head 是否 body phantom 標準 the ”ROI” 空間 key to 在 its percentage 解析度 in order 以外 meet the 以內 of precision 的 therapy.
Conclusions: The 所得 assurance procedure 以內 this computed 量測 simulation imaging 此部 had been 掃 before formally 解析度 It all 及雜 the requirement 標準值 precision radiation 於 To assure 之用 image quality, 此部 also needs 需要 periodically.
目的 The Department 基督教 Radiation Oncology 腫瘤 the Changhua 之 Hospital plans 遠隔 retire the 機 cobalt-60 machine, 治療 empty out 為 treatment room 直線 install a 治療 linear accelerator. 欲 old cobalt-60 鈷 that will 機 removed is 屬醫用 sealed source 物質 medical use. 輻防 should be 執行 qualified radiation 除役 commissioner to 運送 all procedures 材料 dismantling the 在經 and the 員會 of transportation.
Materials 停用 Methods: After 除役 the approval 轉射 the Atomic 注意 Council (AEC) 及 the executive 皆 all procedures 會 radiation protection, 之 should be 放射性 and in 運送 with the 及 according to 輻射 about the 安全 of Transporting 辨理 Materials” and 拆機 of Ionizing 人員 Security” which 之 issued by 擬定 Aiming at 曝露 workers who 其 radiation exposures 量 the dismantling 於 planned special 的 and extimating 後 doses.
Results: After 拆機 and careful 作業 planning and 管制 of radiation 抑低 obey the 下 of ALARA 地 low as 報廢 achievable) whole 結論 and transportation 對 the cobalt-60 六十 was smoothly 的 This paper 過程 the procedure 需要 how to 的 the retiring 劑量 a cobalt-60 經驗 and estimate 詳實 dose fully and accurately.
Purpose: 目的 Department of 基督教 Oncology at 腫瘤 Changhua Christian 之 plans to 遠隔 the original 機 machine, and 治療 out the 為 room to 直線 a new 治療 accelerator. The 欲 cobalt-60 machine 鈷 will be 機 is a 屬醫用 source for 物質 use. There 輻防 be a 執行 radiation protection 除役 to supervise 運送 procedures of 材料 the machine 在經 the safety 員會 transportation.
Materials and 停用 After gaining 除役 approval of 轉射 Atomic Energy 注意 (AEC) at 及 executive yuan, 皆 procedures concerning 會 protection, works 之 be considered 放射性 in line 運送 the steps 及 to ”Regulations 輻射 the Security 安全 Transporting Radioactive 辨理 and ”Rules 拆機 Ionizing Radiation 人員 which are 之 by AEC. 擬定 at the 曝露 who received 其 exposures during 量 dismantling gauge 於 special exposures 的 extimating the 後 After conscientious 拆機 careful practices, 作業 and controlling 管制 radiation protection 抑低 the rule 下 ALARA (as 地 as reasonable 報廢 whole dismantling 結論 transportation of 對 cobalt-60 machine 六十 smoothly accomplished.
Conclusion: 的 paper describes 過程 procedure about 需要 to handle 的 retiring of 劑量 cobalt-60 machine 經驗 estimate personal 詳實 fully and accurately.
本文 In this 游離腔 the PTW 中測 ionization chamber 的 used to 基準 the in 後 exposure rate 治療 IR-192 HDR 的 source in 圓柱 Gammamed 12I 用 afterloading machine. 校正 exposure rate 時應 the source 參數 finite cylinder 假體 phantom that 臨床 equipped with 的 system was 與 The calibration 游離腔 of the 報告 phantom for 敘述 source activity 修正 is discussed 距 the clinical 處之空氣 of the 曝露 is summarized.
Materials 研究 Methods: The 的 air exposure 求得 of the 量 was measured 再 the PTW 於 ionization chamber 有 to the 回 electrometer at 水假體 equal to 率 cm. Source 之 was calculated 因子 the measured 在 according to 內 suggested parameters 做 AAPM Report 結果 The in 時 exposure rate 散射 measured with ( without water 呈 to calculated 呈 back-scatter-factor of 因子 plexiglass phantom.
Results: ) back-scatter-factor is 至游 to 1.081 距離 the factor 等 should be 公分 to calibrate 修正 scatter from 使用 upper and 射源 side of 臨床 phantom which 上 less due 空氣 the lack 有 scatter and 的 gradient correction.
Conclusion: 定性 in plexiglass 方便性 of Ir-192 使用 brachy-therapy source 與 more stability 方法 reproducibility. The 印證 factors of 散射 plexiglass phantom 才能 to be 於 in routine 活度 calibration.
Purpose: 本文 this paper, 游離腔 PTW N23333 中測 chamber was 的 to calibrate 基準 in air 後 rate of 治療 HDR brachytherapy 的 in a 圓柱 12I remote 用 machine. The 校正 rate of 時應 source in 參數 cylinder plexiglass 假體 that was 臨床 with the 的 was measured. 與 calibration factor 游離腔 the plexiglass 報告 for IR-192 敘述 activity calibration 修正 discussed and 距 clinical advantages 處之空氣 the phantom 曝露 summarized.
Materials and 研究 The in 的 exposure rate 求得 the source 量 measured with 再 PTW N2333 於 chamber connected 有 the Capintec 回 at SCD 水假體 to 8 率 Source activity 之 calculated from 因子 measured exposure 在 to the 內 parameters of 做 Report 41. 結果 in phantom 時 rate were 散射 with and ( water phantom 呈 calculated the 呈 of the 因子 phantom.
Results: The ) is equal 至游 1.081 and 距離 factor Cgrad=1.158 等 be considered 公分 calibrate the 修正 from the 使用 and button 射源 of the 臨床 which was 上 due to 空氣 lack of 有 and dose 的 correction.
Conclusion: Calibrations 定性 plexiglass phantom 方便性 Ir-192 HDR 使用 source allow 與 stability and 方法 The calibration 印證 of the 散射 phantom needs 才能 be considered 於 routine source 活度
目的 Discussing the 何杰金 evaluation process 治療 Hodgkin's disease 劑量 and the 並討論 practice. 
Materials 實用性 Methods: Using 方法 Clarkson's method － evaluate mantle 氏病 inverse Y 討論 dosimetry for 倒 eighteen-year-old Hodgkin's 劑量 patient in 並 hospital, and 計盡 the boost 照射 from treatment 劑量 otherwise, calculate 估算 gap between 距 adjacent fields.
Discussion: 劑量 main error 之誤 dose evaluation 自體表 from the 性 of body, 而 up to 野中 Since lung 與 blocked, the 之 between lung 由 adjacent tissue 經給 the mantle 對 caused on 內之劑 to dose 不 The rib's 影響 which within 之影響 is negligible.
Conclusion: 以內 method is 結論 useful way 計算 evaluate the 照野劑 of irregular 可行 but it 唯其 time wasting 或 laborious. Computerization 換 equivalent squares 版 may be 臨床 to increase 必須 practice.
Purpose: 目的 the dose 何杰金 process for 治療 disease radiotherapy 劑量 the clinical 並討論 
Materials and 實用性 Using the 方法 method to － mantle and 氏病 Y fields 討論 for a 倒 Hodgkin's disease 劑量 in our 並 and estimate 計盡 boost dose 照射 treatment planning, 劑量 calculate the 估算 between two 距 fields.
Discussion: The 劑量 error of 之誤 evaluation came 自體表 the non-flatteness 性 body, which 而 to 6%. 野中 lung was 與 the inhomogeneity 之 lung and 由 tissue in 經給 mantle field 對 on effect 內之劑 dose evaluation. 不 rib's effect 影響 within 1% 之影響 negligible.
Conclusion: Clarkson's 以內 is a 結論 way to 計算 the dose 照野劑 irregular fields, 可行 it is 唯其 wasting and 或 Computerization or 換 squares template 版 be applied 臨床 increase clinical 必須
放射 therapy played 何杰金 classic role 治療 the radical 傳統 of localized 本文 disease. We 第二期 a Hodgkin's 接受 patient, stage 後 who was 肺 a left 病變 mass on 於 chest film 下緣 months after 橫 The mass 的 near the 該 lower heart 病變 and obliterated 所 left diaphragm 因 Because the 照射 was quite 引起 from the 旁 recognized paramediastinal 線 pneumonitis following 吻合 irradiation, the 腫塊 has been 讀為 interpreted as 肺 recurrent tumor 但是 tuberculoma. After 比 and comparing 下照 chest radiograph 位置 the subdiaphragmatic 照射 a diagnosis 脾臟 radiation pneumonitis 引起 to spleen 線 was suspected. 檢查 only symptomatic 上 the mass 後 resolved 3 在 later. The 後 case highlighted 少見 importance of 顯示 of the 線照 arrangement on 安排 correct interpretation 正确 a follow-up 氏症 radiograph in 後 disease patients 的 radiotherapy.
Radiation 放射 played a 何杰金 role in 治療 radical treatment 傳統 localized Hodgkin's 本文 We described 第二期 Hodgkin's disease 接受 stage ⅡA, 後 was found 肺 left lung 病變 on a 於 film 2 下緣 after irradiation. 橫 mass was 的 the left 該 heart border 病變 obliterated the 所 diaphragm silhouette. 因 the location 照射 quite different 引起 the commonly 旁 paramediastinal radiation 線 following mantle-field 吻合 the lesion 腫塊 been mistakenly 讀為 as a 肺 tumor or 但是 After reviewing 比 comparing the 下照 radiograph with 位置 subdiaphragmatic port-film, 照射 diagnosis of 脾臟 pneumonitis due 引起 spleen irradiation 線 suspected. Given 檢查 symptomatic treatment, 上 mass spontaneously 後 3 months 在 The unusual 後 highlighted the 少見 of knowledge 顯示 the radiationport 線照 on the 安排 interpretation of 正确 follow-up chest 氏症 in Hodgkin's 後 patients receiving 的
目的 To evaluate 放射 change of 流量 salivary flow 檢驗 of nasopharyngeal 線 patients before 如理論 after radiotherapy, 降低 to examine 於 hyperfractionated regimen 材料 induce less 研究 to the 接受 glands than 例 technique. 
Materials 病人 Methods: This 病人 included 30 不同 17 patients 及 using conventional 一 hyperfractionated radiotherapy. 時 salivary flow 態時 were measured 的 at resting 正常 stimulated status 唾液 during, 1, 極大 and 6 刺激 after radiotherapy. 於 A large 照射 in unirradiated 靜止 flow rate 流量 noted with 少數 range for 減少 and stimulated ％ of 0.01-0.83 狀態 and 0.08-2.83 流量 respectively. After 原來 cGy, the 在 and stimulated 大部份 flow rate 最低 already decreased 多分 30-50%. The 是否 was reached 法能 many patients 放射 3600 cGy. 計學 analysis did 兩種 show significant 全 between the 著 and conventional 是 However, after 態時 radiotherapy and 至 to 6 照射 follow-up, a 創頃 difference favoring 及 group was 女性 both for 之 and stimulated 以及 (p=0.039 & 經 respectively). In 流量 female, high 結論 salivary flow 就 and older 之 might predict 數據 salivary flow 唾液腺 reduction after 線極度 
Conclusions: Salivary 之 were highly 刺激 and saliva 流量 dropped by 之 after 360-720 唾液 The present 點 did not 結束後六個 a significant 復 of damage 照射 the salivary 傷害 using hyperfractionated 照射
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 放射 of whole 流量 flow rates 檢驗 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 線 before and 如理論 radiotherapy, and 降低 examine whether 於 regimen may 材料 less damage 研究 the salivary 接受 than conventional 例 
Materials and 病人 This study 病人 30 and 不同 patients irradiated 及 conventional and 一 radiotherapy. Whole 時 flow rates 態時 measured both 的 resting and 正常 status before, 唾液 1, 3 極大 6 months 刺激 radiotherapy. 
Results: 於 large variation 照射 unirradiated salivary 靜止 rate was 流量 with the 少數 for resting 減少 stimulated rates ％ 0.01-0.83 ml/min 狀態 0.08-2.83 ml/min, 流量 After 360-720 原來 the resting 在 stimulated salivary 大部份 rate had 最低 decreased by 多分 The nadir 是否 reached in 法能 patients after 放射 cGy. Statistical 計學 did not 兩種 significant difference 全 the hyperfractionated 著 conventional groups. 是 after completing 態時 and up 至 6 months' 照射 a marginal 創頃 favoring hyperfractionated 及 was noted 女性 for resting 之 stimulated flow 以及 & 0.04, 經 In addition, 流量 high initial 結論 flow rate, 就 older age 之 predict more 數據 flow rate 唾液腺 after radiotherapy. 線極度 Salivary glands 之 highly radiosensitive, 刺激 saliva excretion 流量 by 30-50% 之 360-720 cGy. 唾液 present study 點 not show 結束後六個 significant reduction 復 damage to 照射 salivary glands 傷害 hyperfractionated radiotherapy.
目的 In patients 局部 locally recurrent 或 advanced abdominal/pelvic 復 long-term disease 骨 and survival 惡性 difficult to 僅靠 with single 要來 therapy. This 期 presents the 控制 results of 相當 radiotherapy (IORT) 研究 our hospital. 報告 and Methods: 醫院 our hospital, 情況 has been 採用 either as 治療 of the 材料 management in 自 previously untreated 本院 malignancies (e.g., 下列 carcinoma, gastric 採用 or part 使用 the salvage 的 adjuvant treatment 針對 other malignancies 經過 recurrent rectal 治療 cervical cancer) 胰臟癌 March 1996. 是 to November 發 48 adult 內腫瘤 underwent this 頸癌 modality with 性 ranging from 年 to 75.7 了 old (median: 患者 The malignancies 至 by IORT 歲 of 19 計有 cancers, 6 道 6 gastric 癌 9 colorectal 復 one case 平滑肌 recurrent jejunal ) and 7 發 cancers. 
Result: 腫瘤 of 48 患者 (58%) were 包括 (including 7/19 道 cancers, 4/6 胃癌 3/6 gastric 例婦 8/9 colorectal 除了 5/7 gynecologic 骨 Except for 摘除 patients with 盆腔 malignancies receiving 病例 exenteration, all 放射 the other 仍 had either 腫瘤 residual or 無法 disease. Seventy-four 腫瘤 of the 在術 with pancreatic 到 suffering from 經叢 or back 疼痛 before treatment 中 achieved good 之 relief after 相當 and IORT. 與 complications due 放射 high dose 量 occurred in 併 patients (4%). 為止 The preliminary ) suggested that 於 was a 復 and feasible 腹部 for abdominal 盆腔 malignancies at 手術 risk for 是 recurrence. It 且 especially effective 方式 relieving tumor 放射 caused by 於 cancer. Longer 所 should be 相當 to evaluate 一步 toxicity and 要 of this 追
Purpose: 目的 patients with 局部 recurrent or 或 abdominal/pelvic malignancies, 復 disease control 骨 survival are 惡性 to achieve 僅靠 single modality 要來 This report 期 the preliminary 控制 of intraoperative 相當 (IORT) in 研究 hospital. 
Materials 報告 Methods: In 醫院 hospital, TORT 情況 been utilized 採用 as part 治療 the initial 材料 in some 自 untreated primary 本院 (e.g., pancreatic 下列 gastric carcinoma) 採用 part of 使用 salvage or 的 treatment in 針對 malignancies (e.g., 經過 rectal or 治療 cancer) since 胰臟癌 1996. Up 是 November 1997, 發 adult patients 內腫瘤 this treatment 頸癌 with age 性 from 32.4 年 75.7 years 了 (median: 60.5). 患者 malignancies treated 至 IORT consisted 歲 19 pancreatic 計有 6 cholangiocarcinomas, 道 gastric cancers, 癌 colorectal cancers, 復 case of 平滑肌 jejunal leiomyosarcoma, ) 7 gynecologic 發 
Result: Twenty-eight 腫瘤 48 patients 患者 were alive 包括 7/19 pancreatic 道 4/6 cholangiocarcinoma, 胃癌 gastric cancers, 例婦 colorectal cancers, 除了 gynecologic cancers). 骨 for some 摘除 with pelvic 盆腔 receiving pelvic 病例 all of 放射 other patients 仍 either gross 腫瘤 or unresectable 無法 Seventy-four percent 腫瘤 the patients 在術 pancreatic cancer 到 from epigastralgia 經叢 back pain 疼痛 treatment had 中 good symptomatic 之 after surgery 相當 IORT. TORT-related 與 due to 放射 dose irradiation 量 in two 併 (4%). 
Conclusion: 為止 preliminary results ) that IORT 於 a safe 復 feasible modality 腹部 abdominal pelvic 盆腔 at high 手術 for local 是 It was 且 effective in 方式 tumor pain 放射 by pancreatic 於 Longer follow-up 所 be needed 相當 evaluate the 一步 and efficacy 要 this approach.
目的 This study 主要 to analyze 直腸 treatment results 根除 our patients 的 rectal adenocarcinoma 討論 curative surgery 發直腸 radiotherapy and 拯救 the role 扮演 salvage treatment 材料 recurrence. 
Materials 台中榮民 Methods: A 腫瘤 of 90 年 with rectal 癌病 who received 位原 from 1980 患者 1995 were 治療 at Department 資料 Radiation Oncology, 手術 Veteran General 發現 The patients 盆腔 were found 的 have extrapelvic 確定 at operation, 時 surgery at 性手術者 and incomplete 記錄 were excluded. 者 patients were 列入 All these 有效 patients received 者 curative surgery 患者 diagnosis. Adjuvant 均 with radiotherapy 根除 chemotherapy was 治療 decided by 線 surgeon. Recurrence 或化學 tumor was 主要 by physical 醫師 imaging studies 復 as CT 理學 or MRI, 檢查 CEA, or 斷層 The salvage 造影 of recurrent 癌胚抗原 included reoperation 或是 curative or 的 intent, radiotherapy 來 or with 使用 Analysis of 日 was calculated 分析 the date 時間 operation using 位 method. 
Results: 之 these 60 五年 2- and 存活率 overall survival 及 were 63% 發率 33%, respectively. 局部 recurrence rate 發 88%. The 是 loco-regional recurrence 術後到 was 26 平均 vs. 21 個 for distant 僅有 Only 5 的 with isoloated 復 recurrence can 再度 salvaged by 性 with curative 切除 The patients 復 recurrent cancer 姑息 palliative surgery 的 at a 值 of 6 是 Seven patients 位直 recurrent disease 復 salvaged with 患者 only. The 拯救 with salvage 線 survived at 出腫瘤 median of 起 months after 拯救 of recurrence 患者 8.5 months 中值 patients with 個 radiotherapy only. 於僅 variables such 拯救 age, gender, 治療 tumor location, 其 tumor size 時間 no statistically 月 impact on 直腸 
Conclusion: There 的 substantially high 接受 rate for 仍 with even 高 curative resection 發率 primary rectal 復 A minority 的 patients with 再次 local recurrence 性 be salvaged 而 aggressive reoperation 的 a relatively long survival.
Purpose: 目的 study was 主要 analyze the 直腸 results of 根除 patients with 的 adenocarcinoma receiving 討論 surgery ± 發直腸 and discuss 拯救 role of 扮演 treatment for 材料 
Materials and 台中榮民 A total 腫瘤 90 patients 年 rectal adenocarcinoma 癌病 received radiotherapy 位原 1980 to 患者 were registered 治療 Department of 資料 Oncology, Taichung 手術 General Hospital. 發現 patients who 盆腔 found to 的 extrapelvic extension 確定 operation, palliative 時 at diagnosis, 性手術者 incomplete data 記錄 excluded. Sixty 者 were analyzable. 列入 these 60 有效 received potentially 者 surgery at 患者 Adjuvant therapy 均 radiotherapy or 根除 was mainly 治療 by the 線 Recurrence of 或化學 was documented 主要 physical examination, 醫師 studies such 復 CT scan 理學 MRI, colonosoopy, 檢查 or sonography. 斷層 salvage treatment 造影 recurrent tumor 癌胚抗原 reoperation with 或是 or palliative 的 radiotherapy alone 來 with chemotherapy. 使用 of survival 日 calculated from 分析 date of 時間 using Kaplan-Meier 位 
Results: Of 之 60 patients 五年 and 5-year 存活率 survival rate 及 63% and 發率 respectively. Overall 局部 rate was 發 The mean 是 recurrence time 術後到 26 months 平均 21 months 個 distant metastasis. 僅有 5 patients 的 isoloated pelvic 復 can be 再度 by reoperation 性 curative intent. 切除 patients with 復 cancer receiving 姑息 surgery survived 的 a median 值 6 months. 是 patients with 位直 disease were 復 with radiotherapy 患者 The patients 拯救 salvage surgery 線 at a 出腫瘤 of 16 起 after diagnosis 拯救 recurrence vs. 患者 months for 中值 with salvage 個 only. Clinical 於僅 such as 拯救 gender, stage, 治療 location, and 其 size had 時間 statistically significant 月 on survival. 直腸 There was 的 high recurrence 接受 for patients 仍 even potentially 高 resection of 發率 rectal adenocarcinoma. 復 minority of 的 with isolated 再次 recurrence can 性 salvaged by 而 reoperation with 的 relatively long survival.
目的 To conduct 高雄長 survey on 醫院 institutional manpower, 科 and treatment 十年 at the 人力 of Radiation 病患 Kaohsiung Chang 特徵 Memorial Hospital 項目 1987-1996. Some 的 the survey ) were compared 較 results of 與 of Care 自 (PCS) in 在 United States. 人 and Materials: 的 database of 檔案 radiotherapy (RT) 的 registered in 主要 personal computer-based 每年 registry system 病人 1987 and 轉診 was reviewed 工作 analyzed. Major 機 of the 平均 included: new 疾病 per annum 完成率 patient referral, 次 patient load 目的 its trends 電腦 time, disease 的 treatment intent, 情形 completion, fractionation ) and application 新 computer in 人 assistance of ) treatment planning. 逐年 (1) The 和 ranged from 但近 to 1264, 水平 mean being 癌患 The number 此 by year, 在 reached a ) during the 後 four years. ) crude rate 呈 patient referral 但 RT was 而言 The referral 的 in the 為 treatment periods, ( and 1992-1996, 工作 mildly from 治療 to 33%, 平均 (2) The 病人 patient load 醫師 per personnel ) machine) was ( follows: radiation 技術師 281 (range, 治療 physicist: 350 ( 280-466); technologist: 工作 (range, 86-157); 治療 428 (range, 的 The patient 呈 for personnel 下降 machine declined ( (3) The 最 diseases most 放射 treated were 的 of the 依次 (15.9%), cervix 肺癌 nasopharynx (13.1%, 子宮 head/neck (12.2%, ( NPC), recto-sigmoid 鼻咽癌 Purely benign 頭頸部 accounted for ( 1% of 直腸癌 (4) Pediatric ) of age 疾病 15 years 放射 for 1.8% ( cases. (5) 至 percent of 腫瘤 were treated ( curative-intent (definitive 的 adjuvant). Twelve 其 of patients 目的 treated with 性 FIT for 的 recurrence. (6) 後 overall treatment 發而 rate was 治療 (7) Conventional ) 1.8-2 Gy/day, 治療 used in 為 of patients. ) (BID) scheme 傳統 for 1% 方式 cases. (8) 一天 application of 的 treatment planning 並且 by sixfold 是 the two ( peroids, 1987-1992 使用 1992-1996, respectively. 治療 was an 呈 trend toward 的 decreased use 的 two-dimensional planning 最近 an increase 已 three-dimensional planning. 治療 Compared with 結論 PCS survey, 工作 was a 機 trend toward 平均 decline of 逐年 patient load 的 personnel and 趨勢 over time. 類似 rate of 癌患 patients referral 接受 radiotherapy was 的 lower than 偏低 PCS survey 在 the United 期間並 Regarding the 太大 the BID 一天 was rarely 的 throughout the 整個 of the 期間 The treatment 治療 rate and 及 of patients 為 with curative 的 appeared satisfactory 大致 comparable with 滿意 result of 相近 survey.
Purpose: 目的 conduct a 高雄長 on the 醫院 manpower, patients, 科 treatment characteristics 十年 the Department 人力 Radiation Oncology, 病患 Chang Gung 特徵 Hospital between 項目 Some of 的 survey items ) compared with 較 of Patterns 與 Care Study 自 in the 在 States. 
Methods 人 Materials: The 的 of 9785 檔案 (RT) patients 的 in a 主要 computer-based cancer 每年 system between 病人 and 1996 轉診 reviewed and 工作 Major items 機 the survey 平均 new cases 疾病 annum (NCPA), 完成率 referral, average 次 load and 目的 trends over 電腦 disease patterns, 的 intent, treatment 情形 fractionation patterns, ) application of 新 in the 人 of radiotherapy ) planning. 
Results: 逐年 The NCPA 和 from 458 但近 1264, the 水平 being 1087. 癌患 number increased 此 year, and 在 a plateau ) the last 後 years. The ) rate of 呈 referral for 但 was 30%. 而言 referral rate 的 the two 為 periods, 1987-1991 ( 1992-1996, increased 工作 from 26% 治療 33%, respectively. 平均 The average 病人 load (NCPA 醫師 personnel or ) was as ( radiation oncologist: 技術師 (range, 177-339); 治療 350 (range, ( technologist: 123 工作 86-157); machine: 治療 (range, 298-705). 的 patient load 呈 personnel and 下降 declined overtime. ( The five 最 most commonly 放射 were cancers 的 the lung 依次 cervix (14.5%), 肺癌 (13.1%, NPC), 子宮 (12.2%, exclude ( recto-sigmoid (7.2%). 鼻咽癌 benign disorders 頭頸部 for about ( of cases. 直腸癌 Pediatric patients ) age ＜ 疾病 years accounted 放射 1.8% of ( (5) Fifty-seven 至 of patients 腫瘤 treated with ( (definitive plus 的 Twelve percent 其 patients were 目的 with salvage 性 for postsurgical 的 (6) The 後 treatment completion 發而 was 76%. 治療 Conventional fraction, ) Gy/day, was 治療 in 69% 為 patients. Twice-a-day ) scheme accounted 傳統 1% of 方式 (8) The 一天 of computerized 的 planning increased 並且 sixfold in 是 two treatment ( 1987-1992 and 使用 respectively. There 治療 an obvious 呈 toward a 的 use of 的 planning and 最近 increase of 已 planning. 
Conclusion: 治療 with the 結論 survey, there 工作 a similar 機 toward a 平均 of average 逐年 load for 的 and machine 趨勢 time. The 類似 of cancer 癌患 referral for 接受 was significantly 的 than the 偏低 survey in 在 United States. 期間並 the treatment, 太大 BID scheme 一天 rarely used 的 the period 整個 the survey. 期間 treatment completion 治療 and percentage 及 patients treated 為 curative intent 的 satisfactory and 大致 with the 滿意 of PCS 相近
目的 To study 目的 killing effects ) menadione alone 用 combined with 於 radiation on 之 hepatoma Hep3B 與 
Materials and 探討 log-phase Hep3B 輻射 were treated 併 menadione, ionizing 曲線 or the 之 of both µ Three protocols 輻射 combined treatments: 照射 cells were 在 with 35 同時 menadione for 結果 hours then 維生素 second, cells 之 irradiated followed 其使 the menadione 濃度 third, cells 為 concurrently treated 維生素 both agents. 後 The menadione 麩胱 the Hep3B 以 cells growth, 維生素 IC50 was 之 60 μM. 都 intracellular reduced 顯著 was significantly 的 after menadione 輻射 for 3 併 After combined 以 most surviving 後 were less 或者 15%. 
Conclusions: 的 'pre-irradiation followed 照射 menadione' and 最好 treatment' have 傷癌 effect. However, ( of menadione 先給 by irradiation' 照射 has the 其餘 effect. This 作用 may be 的 for clinical 死亡率 of menadione 有助 combined with 合 radiation to 應用 cancers.
Purpose: 目的 study the 目的 effects of ) alone or 用 with ionizing 於 on human 之 Hep3B cell. 與 and Methods: 探討 Hep3B cells 輻射 treated with 併 ionizing radiation 曲線 the combination 之 both agents. µ protocols for 輻射 treatments: first, 照射 were pre-treated 在 35 µM 同時 for 3 結果 then irradiated; 維生素 cells were 之 followed by 其使 menadione treatment; 濃度 cells were 為 treated with 維生素 agents. 
Results: 後 menadione inhibited 麩胱 Hep3B tumor 以 growth, the 維生素 was around 之 μM. The 都 reduced glutathione 顯著 significantly decreased 的 menadione treatment 輻射 3 hours. 併 combined treatment 以 surviving fractions 後 less than 或者 
Conclusions: Both 的 followed by 照射 and 'concurrent 最好 have synergistic 傷癌 However, 'pre-treatment ( menadione followed 先給 irradiation' only 照射 the addition 其餘 This finding 作用 be useful 的 clinical application 死亡率 menadione when 有助 with ionizing 合 to treat 應用
目的 To examine 桿菌科 immunopotentiating ability 之 Lactobacteriaceae with 抗癌 lucidum in 材料 and compare 研究 anti-tumor ability 來源 Lactobactcriaceac with 科死菌 of BCG 萃取液 a mouse 刺激 injected with 產生 cells. 
Materials 擾素 Methods: The 增強 ability was 指標 in vitro 發性 the stimulation ; interferon- gamma 乳酸 by mouse 佐劑 cells. The 引發 type hypersensitivity 反應 by foot 方式 scale was 桿菌 as an 細胞 of adjuvant 生長 Anti-tumor ability 比較 examined by 外培養 injected bacteria 脾臟 with sarcoma 乳酸 on mouse 刺激 hind leg. 擾素 The concentrations 上 interferon-gamma proliferation 靈芝強 various heat-killed 同時施 cells were ) than four 捍菌 Ganoderma lucidum 稍微 but slightly 的 than Con 它 Simultaneously injected 過敏 with heat-killed 輕度 cells showed 而 adjuvant effect 刺激 foot swelling 免疫 mouse model. 時 immunized with 遲襲性 Lactobacteiraceae cells 比 higher foot 的 scale when 另外 with SRBC 與 weeks later. 時 Lactobateriaceae cells 更 a better 細胞 of tumor 結論 than viable 初步 
Conclusion: The 乳酸 and anti-tumor 增強 of Lactobacteriaceae 癌細胞 initially verified, 但 studies should 作用 carried on.
Purpose: 目的 examine the 桿菌科 ability of 之 with Ganoderma 抗癌 in vitro 材料 compare the 研究 ability of 來源 with that 科死菌 BCG using 萃取液 mouse model 刺激 with sarcoma 產生 
Materials and 擾素 The immunopotentiating 增強 was tested 指標 vitro using 發性 stimulation of ; gamma production 乳酸 mouse spleen 佐劑 The delayed 引發 hypersensitivity shown 反應 foot swelling 方式 was chosen 桿菌 an index 細胞 adjuvant effect. 生長 ability was 比較 by simultaneously 外培養 bacteria cells 脾臟 sarcoma cells 乳酸 mouse left 刺激 leg. 
Results: 擾素 concentrations of 上 proliferation by 靈芝強 heat-killed Lactobateriaceae 同時施 were higher ) four tested 捍菌 lucidum products, 稍微 slightly lower 的 Con A. 它 injected SRBC 過敏 heat-killed Lactobacteriaceae 輕度 showed an 而 effect on 刺激 swelling in 免疫 model. Mice 時 with heat-killed 遲襲性 cells had 比 foot swelling 的 when challenged 另外 SRBC three 與 later. Heat-killed 時 cells demonstrated 更 better inhibition 細胞 tumor growth 結論 viable BCG. 初步 The immunopotentiating 乳酸 anti-tumor abilities 增強 Lactobacteriaceae are 癌細胞 verified, further 但 should be 作用 on.
目的 To evaluate 骨盆 extent of 於 of setup 治療 by pelvic 的 device. 
Materials 材料 Methods: This 本 randomized study 三種 of two 部位 groups that 腫瘤 with or 分析 pelvic immobilization 對象 We included 子 kinds of 例 diseases that 例 in pelvic 直腸癌 these were 執行 cases of 計畫 cancer, 4 即以 of prostate 的 and 2 區分 of rectal 未加 Except from 與 two patients 骨盆 rectal cancer, 患者 of them 治療 treated with 拍攝 box technique 張照 the principle 拍 radiation technique 方向 all the 前 in both 兩側 The portal 方向 were taken 共 anterior-posterior and 擬攝 directions with 與 frequency of 放射 per week. 方式 were 34 組之問 films and 差異 portal films 直腸癌 be evaluated. 野 setup error 外其餘均 recorded by 野 the iso-center 記錄 between simulation 治療 portal films 的 four individual 為 that were 模擬 caudo-cranial, anterior-posterior 與 and degree 的 rotation. The 前 methods for 以及 the results 的 two-tall t-test 分析 chi-square methods 的 mean value 以 setup deviation 及 ratio of 評估 shift exceeded 平均值 respectively. 
Results: 超過 patterns of 數值 error were 無統 between non-immobilization 的 immobilization groups. 結果 evaluated by 骨盆 setup error, 使用 were no 固定器 differencer between 的 two groups 態並 the laterolateral 以誤 and caudo-cranial 方式 axes, the 兩者 of rotation ) also no ( at all 旋 In anterior-posterior ( evaluated by 未有 270 degree, 唯有 mean setup 度時 of the 到 group (0.21-mm, 差異 was significant 使用 than non-immobilization 患者 (1.54-mm, SD=2.SSmm) 平均 Evaluation by ) ratio of 小 shift exceeded 使用 the immobilized 患者 showed significant 平均 in the ) of anterior-posterior 差 (p=0.046), but 的 group had 評估 behavior of 骨盆 caudocranial axis 減少 The latero-lateral 的 and rotational ) axes did 使頭 show any 的 difference between ( two groups. 左右 With the 顯著 device, there ( significant improvement 使用 the anterior-posterior 可以 but the 的 axis has 方向 effect when 誤差 evaluated by 擺位 ratio of 的 error exceeded 而言 The iso-center 使頭 in latero-lateral 方向 has no 加大 difference despite 左右 the used 方向 this immobilization 未有 So, we 的 pay more 當 to avoid 固定器 inter-treatment variation 注意 the caudo-cranial 的 when we 方法 this kind 方向 pelvic immobilization device.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 骨盆 of influence 於 setup deviation 治療 pelvic immobilization 的 
Materials and 材料 This prospective 本 study composed 三種 two study 部位 that were 腫瘤 or without 分析 immobilization device. 對象 included three 子 of malignant 例 that originated 例 pelvic cavity; 直腸癌 were 10 執行 of cervical 計畫 4 cases 即以 prostate cancer, 的 2 cases 區分 rectal cancer. 未加 from the 與 patients of 骨盆 cancer, all 患者 them were 治療 with four-field 拍攝 technique and 張照 principle of 拍 technique was 方向 the same 前 both groups. 兩側 portal films 方向 taken from 共 and bilateral 擬攝 with the 與 of twice 放射 week. There 方式 34 simulation 組之問 and 149 差異 films to 直腸癌 evaluated. The 野 error was 外其餘均 by comparison 野 iso-center shift 記錄 simulation and 治療 films of 的 individual axes, 為 were latero-lateral, 模擬 anterior-posterior axis 與 degree of 的 The statistic 前 for evaluation 以及 results were 的 t-test and 分析 methods for 的 value of 以 deviation and 及 of iso-center 評估 exceeded 5-mm, 平均值 
Results: The 超過 of setup 數值 were different 無統 non-immobilization and 的 groups. When 結果 by mean 骨盆 error, there 使用 no significant 固定器 between the 的 groups of 態並 laterolateral (p=0.44S) 以誤 caudo-cranial (p=0.092) 方式 the degree 兩者 rotation was ) no difference ( all (p=0.337). 旋 anterior-posterior axis ( by gantry 未有 degree, the 唯有 setup error 度時 the immobilization 到 (0.21-mm, SD=l.llmm) 差異 significant smaller 使用 non-immobilization group 患者 SD=2.SSmm) (p=0.016). 平均 by the ) of iso-center 小 exceeded 5-mm, 使用 immobilized group 患者 significant reduction 平均 the error ) anterior-posterior axis 差 but this 的 had opposed 評估 of the 骨盆 axis (p=0.0l8). 減少 latero-lateral (p=0.359) 的 rotational (p=0.803) ) did not 使頭 any significant 的 between the ( groups. 
Conclusion: 左右 the immobilization 顯著 there has ( improvement of 使用 anterior-posterior axis, 可以 the caudo-cranial 的 has opposed 方向 when we 誤差 by the 擺位 of setup 的 exceeded 5-mm. 而言 iso-center shift 使頭 latero-lateral axis 方向 no significant 加大 despite of 左右 used of 方向 immobilization device. 未有 we must 的 more effort 當 avoid the 固定器 variation of 注意 caudo-cranial axis 的 we use 方法 kind of 方向 immobilization device.
目的 A beam 癌病 of epithermal 人類 at Tsing 病因 Open Pool 正頃 (THOR) was 的 built. This 與 was designed 正 basic research 水池 boron neutron 進行 therapy (BNCT). 治療 research team 簡稱 of radiobiologists, 屏蔽 chemists, medical 生物 nuclear engineers, 等 health physicists. 之 dosimetry group 於 the responsibility 中子 the assessment 的 tumor/normal tissue 品質 doses. Radiation 方法 and quality 治療 assessed in 藥物將 work, 
Materials 人體 Methods: The 累積 principle of 組織 is to 或 (superscript 10)B-laheled 束 to the 和 (superscript 10)B 核反應 will accumulate 與 tumor mostly. 的 the irradiation 殺死 an epithermal 而 neutron beam, 正常 10)B(n,α)^7Li nuclear 吸收 occur and 主要 and high 及 particles emit. 粒子 particles kill 等效 tumor cells 定義 unharm the 組織 tissues. We 射質 our study 代入 equivalent doses, 定義 quality factors 正常 and effective 組微 weighting factors 輻射 R) ) 結是 the dosimetric 腫瘤 
Result: In 濃度 boron concentration, 低 relation between 劑量 dose and 呈 concentration was 的關 At such 濃度 when decreased, 線性 radiation effects 當腫瘤 tumor and 濃度 tissues were 有效 the same. 使得 therapeutic effectiveness 與 BNCT was 輻射 As boron 相當 increased the 治療 became linear 本 the therapeutic 開發 was better. ( A computer 射質 was developed 等值 calculate the ) quantities from 因數 of boron 的 neutron flux 外部 energy, irradiation 利用 and time. 的 were analyzed 率 a function 腫瘤 separate and 濃度 input factors. 進行 irradiation conditions 的 recommended for 與 clinical application.
Purpose: 目的 beam port 癌病 epithermal neutrons 人類 Tsing Hua 病因 Pool Reactor 正頃 was recently 的 This port 與 designed for 正 research on 水池 neutron capture 進行 (BNCT). The 治療 team consisted 簡稱 radiobiologists, pharmaceutical 屏蔽 medical scientists, 生物 engineers, and 等 physicists. The 之 group took 於 responsibility for 中子 assessment of 的 tissue biological 品質 Radiation dose 方法 quality were 治療 in this 藥物將 
Materials and 人體 The basic 累積 of BNCT 組織 to deliver 或 10)B-laheled drug 束 the patient. 和 10)B isotope 核反應 accumulate in 與 mostly. Following 的 irradiation of 殺死 epithermal (thermal) 而 beam, (superscript 正常 nuclear reactions 吸收 and short-range 主要 high LET 及 emit. These 粒子 kill the 等效 cells but 定義 the normal 組織 We focus 射質 study on 代入 doses, effective 定義 factors (Q) 正常 effective radiation 組微 factors (W(subscript 輻射 ) by 結是 dosimetric model. 腫瘤 In low 濃度 concentration, the 低 between equivalent 劑量 and boron 呈 was nonlinear. 的關 such concentration, 濃度 decreased, the 線性 effects for 當腫瘤 and normal 濃度 were approximately 有效 same. The 使得 effectiveness by 與 was decreased. 輻射 boron concentration 相當 the relation 治療 linear and 本 therapeutic effectiveness 開發 better. 
Conclusion: ( computer code 射質 developed to 等值 the dosimetric ) from input 因數 boron concentration, 的 flux and 外部 irradiation geometry 利用 time. Results 的 analyzed as 率 function of 腫瘤 and combined 濃度 factors. Optimal 進行 conditions were 的 for future 與 application.
目的 To understand 發光劑 TLD response 低 low energy 的 in order 將來 establish the 布拉格 dose measurement 量量 at Bragg 需 in the 方法 
Materials and 回火 Under the 回火 annealing condition ( and making : the surface 確保其 and cooling 質及 after vacuum 後 had no 過程 effects to 反應 response, TLD 後 were put 於 the ABS 內 holder in 置 vacuum chamber. 由 generated from 之質子源 Cockroft-Walton accelerator 在 the energy 經準 of 30-100 µ were appropriately 膜 and made 拉塞 pass through ( 10 µg/cm^2 後 foil. After 均 scattering, proton 在 irradiated TLDs 於 were placed ° the 20° 置 and 20 的 away from 光劑 carbon foil. 壓克力 used a 後 behind TLD 倍增器 as the 作為量 detector. After 工具 readout of 發光 TLD samples 計讀 done with 輝光 TLD reader 質子 comparison of 之關 glow curve 照射 different proton 結果 was initiated. 光靈 The result 隨質子 that the 直線 TLD-300 sensitivities ( while proton 而 decreased (LET 徑跡 which was 理論 with track 而 theory. While 分析 glow curve 其 conformed to 深 deep trap 模型 model, it ( showed that 其 glow peaks 第二 P3, P5) 第五 TLD-300 depended 質子 proton energy 關性 the range 結果 30-100 key. 的靈 TLD-200, TLD-300 可作 sufficient sensitivity 劑量 be proton 並非 but they 材料 not a 一些 equivalent material 修正 need some 更 process. Furthermore, 能量 still needs 敏度 sensitivity calibration 因數 measurements for 配合 energies of 量量 to makes 為 dose evaluation complete.
Purpose: 目的 understand the 發光劑 response for 低 energy proton 的 order to 將來 the proton 布拉格 measurement technique 量量 Bragg peak 需 the future. 方法 and Methods: 回火 the best 回火 condition treatment ( making sure : surface characteristics 確保其 cooling process 質及 vacuum annealing 後 no significant 過程 to thermoluminescent 反應 TLD samples 後 put into 於 ABS TLD 內 in the 置 chamber. Proton 由 from a 之質子源 accelerator in 在 energy range 經準 30-100 keV µ appropriately collimated 膜 made to 拉塞 through a ( µg/cm^2 carbon 後 After Rutherford 均 proton uniformly 在 TLDs which 於 placed at ° 20° behind 置 20 cm 的 from the 光劑 foil. We 壓克力 a channeltron 後 TLD holder 倍增器 the proton 作為量 After irradiation, 工具 of the 發光 samples was 計讀 with a 輝光 reader and 質子 of the 之關 curve under 照射 proton energies 結果 initiated. 
Results: 光靈 result showed 隨質子 the TLD-200, 直線 sensitivities increased ( proton energy 而 (LET decreased), 徑跡 was consistent 理論 track structure 而 While TLD-300 分析 curve analysis 其 to the 深 trap competition 模型 it also ( that the 其 peaks (P2, 第二 P5) of 第五 depended on 質子 energy in 關性 range of 結果 key. 
Conclusion: 的靈 TLD-300 have 可作 sensitivity to 劑量 proton detectors, 並非 they are 材料 a tissue 一些 material and 修正 some calibration 更 Furthermore, it 能量 needs more 敏度 calibration factor 因數 for different 配合 of proton 量量 makes proton 為 evaluation complete.
前言 When electron 放射 are used 電子 radiotherapy, the 依據 portals are 使用 shaped to 錐 the treatment 電子 In some 以及 application, a 假體 nominal gap 無空氣 necessary. For 電子 different applicator 都 we most 故 empirically these 加速器 for the 電子錐時 system employed. 電子 and Methods: 化做 this paper, 耕料 10×10 cm^2 × cone, a 的 x 10 直徑 with 5 的 diameter circular 之電子 and a 的 cm diameter 等 cane for 電子 MeV, 80 的 electrons will 於 studied. Change 表面 air gap 氣間 the collimator 以及 the phantom 於 from 0 進行 to 10 其 We measure 做 and compare × differences. 
Results: 的 applicator is 引起 10×10 cm^2 背景 cone resulting 大 larger X-ray 劑量 larger D(subscript 和 G0 and 亦 is better. 均 the applicator 如果 a 10×10 直徑 cone with 的 cm diameter 所 cutout, the 勻度 background is 均 As the 梯度 gap between ( collimator and 較 phantom surface 射線 the penumbra 會 X-ray background 錐 scatters increase, 的 We also 時 that the 半影 cm^2 open 大 for the 散射 of the 並且 gap is 的 
Conclusion: Electron 使用 with a 照野 cm^2 open 所 can be 較 to treat × tumors. To 的 smaller tumors, 形成 10 x 特性 cm2 cone 較 5 cm 如果 circular cutout 直徑 be better. 的 flatness and 用來 treatment size 腫瘤 electron beams 使用 a 10×10 野遮檔 cone with 平方公分 cm diameter 之電子 cutout are 勻度 than with 面積 5 cm 的 open cone.
Introduction: 前言 electron beams 放射 used for 電子 the treatment 依據 are often 使用 to fit 錐 treatment area. 電子 some clinical 以及 a larger 假體 gap is 無空氣 For these 電子 applicator effects, 都 most determine 故 these effects 加速器 the applicator 電子錐時 employed. 
Materials 電子 Methods: In 化做 paper, a 耕料 cm^2 open × a 10 的 10 cone 直徑 5 cm 的 circular cutout, 之電子 a 5 的 diameter open 等 for 12 電子 80 MU 的 will be 於 Change the 表面 gap between 氣間 collimator and 以及 phantom surface 於 0 cm 進行 10 cm. 其 measure parameters 做 compare these × 
Results: When 的 is a 引起 cm^2 open 背景 resulting in 大 X-ray background, 劑量 D(subscript max), 和 and flatness 亦 better. If 均 applicator is 如果 10×10 cm^2 直徑 with 5 的 diameter circular 所 the X-ray 勻度 is smaller. 均 the air 梯度 between the ( and the 較 surface increases 射線 penumbra increases, 會 background and 錐 increase, too. 的 also find 時 the 10×10 半影 open cone 大 the effect 散射 the air 並且 is larger. 的 Electron beams 使用 a 10×10 照野 open cone 所 be used 較 treat larger × To treat 的 tumors, a 形成 x 10 特性 cone with 較 cm diameter 如果 cutout will 直徑 better. The 的 and effective 用來 size of 腫瘤 beams with 使用 10×10 cm^2. 野遮檔 with 5 平方公分 diameter circular 之電子 are better 勻度 with a 面積 cm diameter 的 cone.
目的 To study 了解 a xenogeneic 的 line engineered 在 express the 皰疹 simplex virus 胸喀睫 kinase (HSVtk) 酵素 granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating 或顆 (GM-CSF) can 細胞 used as 因子 vaccine to 時 tumor growth.
Materials 作為 Methods: The 之細胞 gene, murine 與 gene, or 我們 were stably 基因 into the 之 cervix cancer 分別 line HeLa, 轉染 creating three 人 cell lines 細胞株 as H-tk, 篩選 and H-tk/gm. 建立 tumor model 命名 tested was 我們 KBALB sarcoma 測試 in syngenic 模式 mice. For 及其 vivo studies, 鼠 number of 等量 cells and ^ H-gm, or 細胞 cells were 細胞 and injected 而 the right 入 of mice. 腰 tumor growth 之 monitored after 腰 (GCV) administration.
Results: 注入 HSVtk-expressing clones 細胞 2-3 and 給予 12-2) were 或 The established 測量 or H-gm 之 line was 二次 to express 選殖 by supporting 株 growth of 的 GM-CSF-dependent cell 命名 NSF6O. The 及 flank tumors 之 mice injected 亦 premixed K-BALB 支持 H-tk cells 之生長 no definite 體內 retardation upon 時 administration. Further 與 implied that 混合 H-tk cells 老鼠 HSVtk in 再 injection sites, 並 failed to 腫瘤 bystander effect 生長 homologous cells 與 in vitro 株 The right 再 of mice 時 with premixed 抑制 and H-tk/gm 老鼠 Hgm showed 腫瘤 detectable or 生長 delayed tumor 的 either with 細胞 without GCV 注射 however, the 天 flank K-BALB 仍會表達 progressed with 同源 growth curve 問無法 each study 到 Cur studies 效應 that though ) cells can 實驗組 HSVtk gene 其 vivo, they 腰部 not confer 抑制 killing effect 結論 xenogeneic tumor 雖然 cells upon 內 administration. This 但 be because 引起 HeLa cells 的 intrinsically resistant 觀者 metabolic cooperation 與 other cells. 對代謝 production of 具有 is able 反之 suppress local 分泌 growth, but 抑異種 potent enough 腫瘤 induce distant 卻 immunity. This 強烈 might be 免疫 to insufficient 以 or amount 腫 GM-CSF action.
Purpose: 目的 study whether 了解 xenogeneic cell 的 engineered to 在 the herpes 皰疹 virus thymidine 胸喀睫 (HSVtk) and/or 酵素 colony-stimulating factor 或顆 can be 細胞 as cellular 因子 to repress 時 growth.
Materials and 作為 The HSVtk 之細胞 murine GM-CSF 與 or both 我們 stably transfected 基因 the human 之 cancer cell 分別 HeLa, thus 轉染 three different 人 lines designated 細胞株 H-tk, H-gm, 篩選 H-tk/gm. The 建立 model we 命名 was the 我們 sarcoma cells 測試 syngenic BALB/c 模式 For in 及其 studies, equal 鼠 of KBALB 等量 and H-tk, ^ or H-tk/gm 細胞 were premixed 細胞 injected into 而 right flanks 入 mice. The 腰 growth was 之 after ganciclovir 腰 administration.
Results: Two 注入 clones (H-tk 細胞 and H-tk 給予 were isolated. 或 established H-tk/gm 測量 H-gm cell 之 was confirmed 二次 express GM-CSF 選殖 supporting the 株 of a 的 cell line 命名 The right 及 tumors in 之 injected with 亦 K-BALB and 支持 cells showed 之生長 definite growth 體內 upon GCV 時 Further studies 與 that the 混合 cells expressed 老鼠 in the 再 sites, but 並 to confer 腫瘤 effect between 生長 cells by 與 vitro studies. 株 right flanks 再 mice injected 時 premixed K-BALB 抑制 H-tk/gm or 老鼠 showed no 腫瘤 or much 生長 tumor growth 的 with or 細胞 GCV administration; 注射 the left 天 K-BALB tumor 仍會表達 with similar 同源 curve in 問無法 study group.
Conclusion: 到 studies suggest 效應 though HeLa ) can express 實驗組 gene in 其 they can 腰部 confer bystander 抑制 effect to 結論 tumor (sarcoma) 雖然 upon GCV 內 This might 但 because the 引起 cells are 的 resistant to 觀者 cooperation with 與 cells. Local 對代謝 of GM-CSF 具有 able to 反之 local tumor 分泌 but not 抑異種 enough to 腫瘤 distant antitumor 卻 This inability 強烈 be related 免疫 insufficient duration 以 amount of 腫 action.
目的 Cancer of 頸癌 uterine cervix 台灣 the most 發生率 female cancer 癌症 Taiwan. Our 研究 is to 檢討 the treatment 五年 of cervical 放射 in the 子宮 five years 的 Shin Kong 並 Hospital. In 治療 to refine 引發 treatment protocol, 副作用 possible risk 可能 of late 改善 complications will 的 be analysed.
Materials 材料 Methods: From 從 1992 to 月 1994, 109 月 with uterine 位子 cancer completed 在 radiotherapy (RT) 完成 Shin Kong 線 Hospital. Treatment 線 of external 包括 RT followed 與子 HDR (high 內 rate) intracavitary 開始 After external 範圍 dose of 整個 Gy to 及 pelvis, bilateral 腹腔 of stage 照射 cases were 依腫瘤 boosted to 縮小範圍 Gy with 的 shielding. Intracavitary 宮旁 consisted of ) to four 內 with intervals 次 one week. 一周 prescribed dose 給予 each insertion ) 7.2 Ely 劑量 point A, 較 in some 累積 (old age 劑量 high cumulative 的 dose), point 則依 dose had 劑量 modified to 或 Gy. One 有 and two 人 (24 Iv-IIa, 人 IIb, 26 接受 4 IVa) 檢查 follow-up and 分析 enrolled for 病患 study.
Results: After 至 to 54 的 of follow-up 蹤 39 months), 中位值 cases was 月 (one was 月底 to have 存活 metastasis), 37 共有 died of 一人 (8 for 遠處 reurrence, 16 已 distant metastasis, 人死 for both), 局部 cases died 人死 complication, while 遠處 cases were 局部 due to 發合 disease. The 轉移 cause-specific survival 治療 local control 引發 are 95%/95% 遣症 Ib-IIa, 84%/92% 於 IIb, 50%/78% 三年 IIIa-b, 25%/50% 下 stage IV, 腫瘤 A total 為 86 cases ) survived more 存活 one year 超過 further analysed 病患 define the 後 factors of 的 gastrointestinal complication. 結果 patients (30.2%) 共有 noted to ) late rectal 後 (RTOG gradeI 人 gradeI 8, 經 4), while 後 cases (4.6%) 放射 ileus. Logistic 遠隔 analysis demonstrated 近接 high risk 直腸劑 late rectal 大 in those 總 were stage 時問 cases, total 為 dose (external 結論 ICRU rectal 結果 Gy, and 的 treatment time＞70 結果 Our current 一步 show the 改善 outcome of ( IIIa-tub cases 病息 not satisfactory. 遠處 18 patients 估選定 were noted 危險 have distant 進行 it might 之 recommended to 研究 high risk 近接 to undergo 的 chemotherapy. With 有 present tratment 發生 there will 的 about 30% 直腸炎 cases to 應繼續 different extent 直腸後遣 radiation proctitis. 的 will continue 不 analyse possible 結果 factors of 前提 rectal complications 治療 promote the 的 gain of 減少後遣症 brachytherapy based 機率 planning.
Introduction: 目的 of the 頸癌 cervix is 台灣 most prevalent 發生率 cancer in 癌症 Our study 研究 to analyse 檢討 treatment outcome 五年 cervical cancer 放射 the past 子宮 years at 的 Kong Memorial 並 In order 治療 refine future 引發 protocol, the 副作用 risk factors 可能 late rectal 改善 will also 的 analysed.
Materials & 材料 From September 從 to December 月 109 patients 月 uterine cervical 位子 completed planned 在 (RT) at 完成 Kong Memorial 線 Treatment consisted 線 external beam 包括 followed by 與子 (high dose 內 intracavitary brachytherapy. 開始 external RT 範圍 of 40~44 整個 to whole 及 bilateral parametrium 腹腔 stage (IIb 照射 were further 依腫瘤 to 54~58 縮小範圍 with central 的 Intracavitary brachytherapy 宮旁 of three ) four insertions 內 intervals of 次 week. The 一周 dose of 給予 insertion was ) Ely to 劑量 A, while 較 some circumstances 累積 age or 劑量 cumulative rectal 的 point A 則依 had been 劑量 to 5-6 或 One hundred 有 two cases 人 Iv-IIa, 48 人 26 IIIa-b, 接受 IVa) received 檢查 and were 分析 for the 病患 After 30 至 54 months 的 follow-up (median 蹤 months), 65 中位值 was alive 月 was noted 月底 have distant 存活 37 cases 共有 of disease 一人 for local 遠處 16 for 已 metastasis, one 人死 both), 3 局部 died of 人死 while 9 遠處 were dead 局部 to intercurrent 發合 The 3-year 轉移 survival and 治療 control rates 引發 95%/95% for 遣症 84%/92% for 於 50%/78% for 三年 25%/50% for 下 IV, respectively. 腫瘤 total of 為 cases who ) more than 存活 year were 超過 analysed to 病患 the risk 後 of late 的 complication. Twenty-six 結果 (30.2%) was 共有 to have ) rectal sequale 後 gradeI 14, 人 8, gradeIII-IV 經 while four 後 (4.6%) developed 放射 Logistic regression 遠隔 demonstrated a 近接 risk of 直腸劑 rectal sequale 大 those who 總 stage IIb-IV 時問 total rectal 為 (external RT+total 結論 rectal dose)＞65 結果 and overall 的 time＞70 days.
Conclusion: 結果 current study 一步 the treatment 改善 of Figo ( cases is 病息 satisfactory. Because 遠處 patients (17.6%) 估選定 noted to 危險 distant metastases, 進行 might be 之 to select 研究 risk patients 近接 undergo adjuvant 的 With our 有 tratment proctocol, 發生 will be 的 30% of 直腸炎 to have 應繼續 extent of 直腸後遣 proctitis. We 的 continue to 不 possible risk 結果 of late 前提 complications and 治療 the therapeutic 的 of HDR 減少後遣症 based treatment 機率
目的 We plan 門診 evaluate the 使用 of complication, 導管 conveniences of 可 ambulatory continuous 帶式 chemotherapy delivery 進行 through implantable 灌注 central vein 的 and portable 發症 pump in 與 treatment of 研究 patients at 年 outpatient chemotherapy 年 of VGH-Taipei.
Materials 共 Methods: From 了 1990 to 中央 1991, we 導管 ninety cancer 導管 who received 導管 through either 灌注 catheter or 系列 Cath and 歷及 430 iv 回溯 pump for 分析 infusional chemotherapy. 總共 chart and 中 records were ( retrospectively.
Results: In 有 total of 之 treatment courses, 有 were 27 導管 complications recorded. 敗 patient developed 而 related sepsis 拔除 needed hospitalization 人次 catheter removal 藥袋 There were 脫落 courses (5 因幫浦 with bag 而 tube disconnection, 人次 courses (5 而 with pump 使用 from improper 灌 4 courses 耗盡 patients) of 故障 obstruction which 導管 urokinase salvage, 而 courses (4 重裝 of pump 破裂 from battery 藥物 4 courses 有 4 patients) 原因 Hickman's catheter 故障 3 courses 主要 3 patients) 不良 drug leakage 發症 reservoir, 1 病人 (1 patient) 中央 machine malfunction 與 unknown reason. 攜 other major 灌注 were noted.
Conclusion: 連續性 continuous infusional 化學 with implantable 一種 vein catheter 的 portable infusional 的 is a 併 convenient with 的 complication treatment modality.
Purpose: 目的 plan to 門診 the patterns 使用 complication, and 導管 of outpatient 可 continuous infusional 帶式 delivery system 進行 implantable semipermanent 灌注 vein catheter 的 portable infusional 發症 in the 與 of cancer 研究 at the 年 chemotherapy unit 年 VGH-Taipei.
Materials and 共 From September 了 to June 中央 we collected 導管 cancer patients 導管 received chemotherapy 導管 either Hickman's 灌注 or Port-A 系列 and Walkmed 歷及 iv infusion 回溯 for outpatient 分析 chemotherapy. Patients' 總共 and nursing 中 were analyzed ( In a 有 of 666 之 courses, there 有 27 (4.1%) 導管 recorded. One 敗 developed catheter 而 sepsis who 拔除 hospitalization and 人次 removal thereafter. 藥袋 were 5 脫落 (5 patients) 因幫浦 bag and 而 disconnection, 5 人次 (5 patients) 而 pump malfunction 使用 improper operation, 灌 courses (4 耗盡 of catheter 故障 which need 導管 salvage, 4 而 (4 patients) 重裝 pump failure 破裂 battery exhaustion, 藥物 courses ( 有 patients) of 原因 catheter dislodged, 故障 courses ( 主要 patients) of 不良 leakage from 發症 1 course 病人 patient) of 中央 malfunction from 與 reason. No 攜 major morbidity 灌注 noted.
Conclusion: Outpatient 連續性 infusional chemotherapy 化學 implantable central 一種 catheter and 的 infusional pump 的 a safe, 併 with low 的 treatment modality.
目的 Synchronous brain 診斷 (SM) of 併 cancer patients 表示 advanced stage 的 limited survival. 也 treatment intent 有限 to relieve 病人 agonizing symptoms. 是 analyzed the 的 of radiotherapy 目的 these patients 此種 evaluate the 解性 of palliative 的 and Methods: 療效 1987 to 本科 102 lung 至 patients with 位 synchronous SM 初 reviewed. All 同時合 received cranial 電腦 (median dose 的 Gy) and 病人 Chemotherapy and 接受 were performed 放射 14 and 中間 cases respectively. 其中 patients also 也 lung irradiation.
Results: 放射 two leading 分別 symptoms were 接受 weakness (67.6%) 位 headache (55.9%). 手術 mean duration 最常見 cranial irradiation 症狀 15.2 days. ) treatment, overall ( symptomatic response 治療 was 74.3%. 的 survival was 治療 months and 狀有 survival rate 時間 14.7%. The 是 survival analysis 存活率 that good 變項 status, higher 結果 cranial radiation 的 neurosurgery, and 高 of urine/stool 劑量 were favorable 腦部 factors.
Conclusions: Owing 大小便 short life 變數 and neurological 的 of lung 結論 patients with 同時合 SM, a 的 palliative treatment 而且 improve life 狀 is required 良好 supportive care 性 these patients. 品質 appears as 的 effective means 結果 palliation with 治療 neurological symptomatic 病人 rate while 而且 median duration 只有 cranial irradiation 放射 only 15 好 Lung irradiation 解性 no significant 治療 on survival; 並沒有 it should 影響 used for 在 of symptoms.
Purpose: 目的 brain metastases 診斷 of lung 併 patients indicate 表示 stage and 的 survival. The 也 intent is 有限 relieve the 病人 symptoms. We 是 the results 的 radiotherapy for 目的 patients to 此種 the effects 解性 palliative treatment.
Materials 的 Methods: From 療效 to 1994, 本科 lung cancer 至 with CT-documented 位 SM were 初 All patients 同時合 cranial irradiation 電腦 dose 30 的 and dexamethasone. 病人 and neurosurgery 接受 performed in 放射 and 9 中間 respectively. Thirty 其中 also underwent 也 irradiation.
Results: The 放射 leading neurological 分別 were motor 接受 (67.6%) and 位 (55.9%). The 手術 duration of 最常見 irradiation was 症狀 days. After ) overall neurological ( response rate 治療 74.3%. Median 的 was 4.2 治療 and 1-year 狀有 rate was 時間 The multivariate 是 analysis showed 存活率 good performance 變項 higher total 結果 radiation dose, 的 and absence 高 urine/stool incontinence 劑量 favorable prognostic 腦部 Owing to 大小便 life expectancy 變數 neurological morbidity 的 lung cancer 結論 with synchronous 同時合 a good 的 treatment to 而且 life quality 狀 required in 良好 care of 性 patients. Radiotherapy 品質 as an 的 means of 結果 with 74.3% 治療 symptomatic response 病人 while the 而且 duration of 只有 irradiation is 放射 15 days. 好 irradiation has 解性 significant effect 治療 survival; instead, 並沒有 should be 影響 for palliation 在 symptoms.
目的 To evaluate 本院 therapeutic result 白血病 analyze the 照射 variables of 結果 acute leukemia 病童 with chemotherapy 因子 prophylactic cranial 方法 (PCI) at 月 over the 月 10 years.
Materials 患有 Methods: From 兒童 1987 to 淋巴 1996, twenty-two 位為 with acute 淋巴 received PCI 本科 Kaohsiung Medical 全腦 Hospital. There 男孩 9 boys 女孩 13 girls 年齡介 1.6 and 歲 years of 於 at diagnosis. 的 to French- 綜時間 (FAB) classification, 範圍 patients had 年 lymphoblastic leukemia 總劑 and 5 經由 had acute 其 leukemia (ANLL). 病 radiation dose 研究 1800 cGy 預 in 10 與 15 fractions. 結果 factors such 相關 leukemia subtype, 後 sex, hemogram, 淋巴腺 lymphoadenopathy and 預後的 fraction were 所有 by retrospective 五年 of the 而 records. All 的 were followed 結束 regularly. The 超過 follow-up time 放射 patients still 主要 were 4.8 為 (range 2.7 所有 7.16 years).
Results: 一人 common acute 全腦 were vomiting 個 headache. The 發生 disease-free survival 白血病 was 50%. 而 median survival 的 was 6 原因 ALL was 結論 years and 發生 was 2 影響 Only one 的 (5%) suffered 預 CNS relapse 由 year after 經系 The major 白血球 of death 機會 sepsis (55%). 已 was the 緩解 prognostic factors 中 this study.
Conclusion: 可能 involvement of 的 CNS remains 發 major clinical 本文 despite the 可獲 disease control 好 by mordern 白血病 regimens. In 白血病 study, excellent 模式 prophylactic result 化學 was achieved 均 our cases, 全腦 we recommend 是 PCI should 的 incorporated in 其他 management of 之 acute leukemia. 有待 the most 多 prognostic factor 收集 adenopathy.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 本院 result and 白血病 the prognostic 照射 of pediatric 結果 leukemia treated 病童 chemotherapy and 因子 cranial irradiation 方法 at KMCH 月 the past 月 years.
Materials and 患有 From September 兒童 to March 淋巴 twenty-two patients 位為 acute leukemia 淋巴 PCI at 本科 Medical College 全腦 There were 男孩 boys and 女孩 girls between 年齡介 and 17.4 歲 of age 於 diagnosis. According 的 French- American-British 綜時間 classification, seventeen 範圍 had acute 年 leukemia (ALL) 總劑 5 patients 經由 acute non-lymphoblastic 其 (ANLL). The 病 dose was 研究 cGy given 預 10 to 與 fractions. Prognostic 結果 such as 相關 subtype, age, 後 hemogram, hepatosplenomegaly, 淋巴腺 and radiotherapy 預後的 were analyzed 所有 retrospective review 五年 the medical 而 All patients 的 followed up 結束 The median 超過 time for 放射 still alive 主要 4.8 years 為 2.7 to 所有 years).
Results: The 一人 acute reactions 全腦 vomiting and 個 The 5-year 發生 survival rate 白血病 50%. Overall 而 survival time 的 6 years; 原因 was 6.16 結論 and ANLL 發生 2 years. 影響 one patient 的 suffered from 預 relapse 1 由 after PCI. 經系 major cause 白血球 death was 機會 (55%). Adenopathy 已 the significant 緩解 factors in 中 study.
Conclusion: Leukemia 可能 of the 的 remains a 發 clinical problem 本文 the improved 可獲 control provided 好 mordern treatment 白血病 In this 白血病 excellent CNS 模式 result (95%) 化學 achieved in 均 cases, and 全腦 recommend that 是 should be 的 in the 其他 of pediatric 之 leukemia. Besides, 有待 most significant 多 factor was 收集
目的 To measure 以 doses of 點 breast from 治療 tangential fields. 時 investigate the 乳房 effect of 添加 sheet and 皮村質 bolus and 屏蔽 the availability 及 practical treatment.
Materials 治療 Methods: We 可行性 mono-isocenter tangential 方法 Two tangential 對 was applied ( treat patient's 照野 chest wall, 中心 mammary chain 相切 axillary lymph ) The supraclavicular 相切 nodes were ) with a 乳房 field. 11 內乳 III, IV 腋下 patients were 再結 in our 個 TLDs were ( on their 治療 breast for 淋巴 evaluation with 名屬 following condition: 四期 without rubber 做過 or lead 手術 (2) with 乳癌 sheet, (3) 乳房 rubber bolus. 其年齡 prescribe dose 平均 180 cGy 在 We found 乳房 the to 光劑 breast was ) cGy daily, 每次 there is 添加 shielding. By 的 0.5cm, 1cm, 橡皮 and 2cm 予以 on contralateral 後 the doses 結果 to 4.6±0.5 治療 3.2±0.3 cGy, 未 cGy and 屏蔽 cGy, respectively. 乳房 0.3cm and 的 lead sheet 添加 added, the 對側 decreased to 劑量 cGy and 為 cGy, respectively. 而 while the 及 dose reach 對側 cGy, the 分別 to contralateral 因此 was estimated 次 332 cGy. 達 a 2cm 對側 or 0.5cm 將 sheet will 的 reduce the 在 to 80 填充物 and 73 鉛 respectively, which 後 approximately 75% 乳房 radiation doses.
Conclusion: 分別 bolus is 為 used for 約 body surface 劑量 during radiation 材質 This study 放射 that rubber 一般 can decrease 於 doses to 身體 breast when 劑量 tangential field 得知 is applied. 可用 bolus is 治療 material which 之 be easily 劑量 and proved 於 effectively reduce 各 dose of 治療 breast, it 或 also easy 作 fix on 固定 chest wall, 於 we encourage 因此 usage of 運 during radiation 病患 for breast 劑量
Purpose: 目的 measure the 以 of contralateral 點 from mono-isocenter 治療 fields. To 時 the shielding 乳房 of lead 添加 and rubber 皮村質 and evaluate 屏蔽 availability on 及 treatment.
Materials and 治療 We develop 可行性 tangential technique. 方法 tangential fields 對 applied to ( patient's breast, 照野 wall, internal 中心 chain and 相切 lymph nodes. ) supraclavicular lymph 相切 were treated ) a supraclavicular 乳房 11 stage 內乳 IV post-mastectomy 腋下 were enrolled 再結 our study. 個 were placed ( their contralateral 治療 for dosage 淋巴 with the 名屬 condition: (1) 四期 rubber bolus 做過 lead sheet, 手術 with lead 乳癌 (3) with 乳房 bolus. The 其年齡 dose was 平均 cGy daily.
Results: 在 found that 乳房 to contralateral 光劑 was 11±1.9 ) daily, when 每次 is no 添加 By adding 的 1cm, 1.5cm 橡皮 2cm bolus 予以 contralateral breast, 後 doses decreased 結果 4.6±0.5 cGy, 治療 cGy, 3.0±0.2 未 and 2.8±0.1 屏蔽 respectively. While 乳房 and 0.5cm 的 sheet were 添加 the doses 對側 to 2.7±0.2 劑量 and 2.6±0.2 為 respectively. Therefore, 而 the total 及 reach 5040 對側 the dose 分別 contralateral breast 因此 estimated as 次 cGy. Adding 達 2cm bolus 對側 0.5cm lead 將 will effectively 的 the dose 在 80 cGy 填充物 73 cGy, 鉛 which eliminate 後 75% scatter 乳房 doses.
Conclusion: Rubber 分別 is usually 為 for increasing 約 surface dose 劑量 radiation therapy. 材質 study indicated 放射 rubber bolus 一般 decrease the 於 to contralateral 身體 when a 劑量 field technique 得知 applied. Rubber 可用 is a 治療 which can 之 easily available, 劑量 proved to 於 reduce the 各 of contralateral 治療 it is 或 easy to 作 on patient's 固定 wall, so 於 encourage the 因此 of bolus 運 radiation therapy 病患 breast cancer.
倒 papilloma and 狀瘤 carcinoma are 類癌 uncommon tumors 呼吸 the upper 而 tract, and 方式 treatment modalities 完全 controversial. We 中 a case 患有 an 80-year-old 之 patient with 經 nasal cavity 鼻竇 Functional endoscopic 病理 surgery was 此 and the 有 revealed inverted 乳頭 and sarcomatoid 類癌 This combination 組織 not previously 為 reported. Radiotherapy 且 administrated because 的 advanced disease, 術 surgical margins, 接受 the unique 之 findings. A 治療 technique was 為 with a 腫瘤 dose to 象 cGy. No 放射 was noted. 作為 suggests that 特殊 may be 療法 useful adjuvant 於 for improving 腫瘤 control of this disease.
Inverted 倒 and sarcomatoid 狀瘤 are both 類癌 tumors of 呼吸 upper aerodigestive 而 and the 方式 modalities are 完全 We report 中 case of 患有 80-year-old male 之 with a 經 cavity tumor. 鼻竇 endoscopic sinus 病理 was performed 此 the pathology 有 inverted papilloma 乳頭 sarcomatoid carcinoma. 類癌 combination has 組織 previously been 為 Radiotherapy was 且 because of 的 disease, inadequate 術 margins, and 接受 unique pathological 之 A 3-field 治療 was used, 為 a total 腫瘤 to 5940 象 No recurrence 放射 noted. This 作為 that radiotherapy 特殊 be a 療法 adjuvant therapy 於 improving local 腫瘤 of this disease.
目的 To report 用 result of 性腔 intracavitary brachytherapy 近接 recurrent esophageal 改善 patient.
Materials and 局部 Since January 發 there were 吞 recurrent esophageal 困難 patients with 材料 of severe 方法 who received 年 brachytherapy as 兩名 treatment. The 局部 were carried 發 by a 因吞 afterloading device 困難 lridium-192 radiation 腔 and a 近接 catheter which 利用  designed 與 esophageal applications. 為 patient was 設計 by a 導管 volume including 治療 middle third 給予 the esophagus, 範圍 in length, 長 prescribed dose 九 was one 半徑 in depth 一 the central 總劑 of the 量 The total 分 dose was 兩周 cGy in 第二例 fractions within 治療 weeks. The 是 for another 度 was arranged 公分 cover the 是 part of 公分 esophageal tumor 量 2cm in 分 and the 十二日 dose point 完成 one cm 第一例 depth. The 後 treatment dose 可以 2000 cGy 實物 4 fractions 兩周 12 days.
Results 後 symptoms of 急性 first patient 不過 improved after 在 first 5 後 of HDR 個 He could 因腫瘤 liquid diet 及 this treatment 去世 odynophagia occurred. 經近 months later, 治療 expired due 患者 tumor bleeding 感到 cachexia. After 水少 fractions of 生活 brachytherapy, the 有 patient could 無 some saliva, 副作用 the NO 患者 could be 治療 more deeply. 第二 felt better 月 to less 肺炎 of saliva 惡質體 treatment. He 此種 due to 能 in two 患者 The purpose 品質 improving quality 無明顯 life could 除了 reached via 食道炎 kind of 腔 without severe 近接 toxicity except 可以 grade one 曾 Palliative intracavitary 體外 can be 治療 successful treatment 局部 relief of 發 for patients 患者 recurrent esophageal 吞 patients with 困難 external beam 獲得
Purpose: 目的 report the 用 of palliative 性腔 brachytherapy in 近接 esophageal cancer 改善 and Methods 局部 January 1996, 發 were two 吞 esophageal cancer 困難 with symptoms 材料 severe dysphagia 方法 received intracavitary 年 as palliative 兩名 The treatment 局部 carried out 發 a microSelectron-HDR 因吞 device with 困難 radiation source 腔 a special 近接 which was 利用 designed for 與 applications. One 為 was treated 設計 a treatment 導管 including the 治療 third of 給予 esophagus, 9cm 範圍 length, the 長 dose point 九 one cm 半徑 depth from 一 central axis 總劑 the source. 量 total treatment 分 was 2000 兩周 in 10 第二例 within 2 治療 The brachytherapy 是 another patient 度 arranged to 公分 the upper 是 of the 公分 tumor with 量 in length 分 the prescribed 十二日 point was 完成 cm in 第一例 The total 後 dose was 可以 cGy in 實物 fractions within 兩周 days.
Results The 後 of the 急性 patient had 不過 after the 在 5 fractions 後 HDR treatments. 個 could eat 因腫瘤 diet after 及 treatment but 去世 occurred. Two 經近 later, he 治療 due to 患者 bleeding and 感到 After 2 水少 of intracavitary 生活 the second 有 could swallow 無 saliva, and 副作用 NO tube 患者 be inserted 治療 deeply. He 第二 better due 月 less production 肺炎 saliva after 惡質體 He expired 此種 to pneumonia 能 two months. 患者 purpose of 品質 quality of 無明顯 could be 除了 via this 食道炎 of treatment 腔 severe acute 近接 except for 可以 one esophagitis.
Conclusion; 曾 intracavitary brachytherapy 體外 be a 治療 treatment for 局部 of dysphagia 發 patients with 患者 esophageal cancer 吞 with previous 困難 beam radiotherapy.
目的 Altered fractionated 的 can enhance 已 local control 可以 many types 控制率 tumor when 研究 with conventional 每天 especially for 之 and neck 放射 The purpose 對 this prospective 療效 II study 材料 to evaluate 自民國 feasibility, response 十二月 toxicities of 十四年 radiotherapy for 位 carcinoma (NPC).
Materials 進入 Methods: Through 其中 1992 to 例 1995, 43 於 with pathologically 大多 NPC were 病理切片 There were 分化 male and 未 female with 根據 median age 系統 51 years 第三期 28-78). The 例 of most 第四期 (91%) belongs 放射 WHO type 如下 and III. 二次 to 1988 下午 staging system, 隔六小時 patients (86.1%) 五天 stage IV, 量 (11.6%) stage 分次 and 1(2.3%) 病人 II. The 主要 radiotherapy consists 黏膜 1.5 Gy/fraction, 達 fractions per 和 with at 達 a 6-hour ｝ The total 毒性 is usually 接受 Gy/48 fractions 加速 5 weeks.
Results: 治療 major toxicities 要求 mucositis and 分次 reaction. Grade 只 mucositis occurred 另有 24 patients 二 and grade 週之久 skin reaction 所有 26 patients 能 Eleven patients 的 to change 平均 conventional radiotherapy 分次 Gy/fraction, one 平均 per day) 天 the later 時問 of radiotherapy, 個 2 patients 追跌 interruption for 月 and 4 失敗者 Although the 單獨 accelerated schedule 復 13 patients 鼻咽 modified, all 遠處 completed the 例先 with average 轉移 72 Gy/47 又 days (range 部及 Gy). After 復 median follow-up 都 of 41 轉移 (range 24-60), 部 nasopharynx disease-free, 餛 disease-free, and 遠處 metastasis disease-free 三年 are 86.6%, 三年 and 71.2% 焉 The 3-year 式 survival and 對 survival are 是 and 65.7%. 根 patients failed 治療 to distant 轉移 Our data 失敗 that accelerated 原因 for advance 再 is both 性化學 and effective, 減少 acceptable toxicities. 發生 adjuvant chemotherapy 值得 eradicate subclinical 研究 should be 放射 studied.
［Therapeut Radiol 腫瘤學 1997; 4:243-249］
Purpose: 目的 fractionated radiotherapy 的 enhance the 已 control in 可以 types of 控制率 when compared 研究 conventional radiotherapy, 每天 for head 之 neck cancer. 放射 purpose of 對 prospective phase 療效 study is 材料 evaluate the 自民國 response and 十二月 of accelerated 十四年 for nasopharyngeal 位 (NPC).
Materials and 進入 Through December 其中 to December 例 43 patients 於 pathologically documented 大多 were entered. 病理切片 were 32 分化 and 11 未 with a 根據 age of 系統 years (range 第三期 The pathology 例 most patients 第四期 belongs to 放射 type II 如下 III. According 二次 1988 AJCC 下午 system, 37 隔六小時 (86.1%) were 五天 IV, 5 量 stage III, 分次 1(2.3%) stage 病人 The accelerated 主要 consists of 黏膜 Gy/fraction, two 達 per day, 和 at least 達 6-hour interval. ｝ total dose 毒性 usually 72 接受 fractions in 加速 weeks.
Results: The 治療 toxicities were 要求 and skin 分次 Grade 3/4 只 occurred in 另有 patients (55.8%) 二 grade 3/4 週之久 reaction in 所有 patients (60.5%). 能 patients asked 的 change to 平均 radiotherapy (1.8-2.0 分次 one fraction 平均 day) during 天 later part 時問 radiotherapy, and 個 patients had 追跌 for 2 月 4 weeks. 失敗者 the original 單獨 schedule in 復 patients were 鼻咽 all patients 遠處 the treatment 例先 average dose 轉移 Gy/47 fractions/38 又 (range 67.5-79 部及 After a 復 follow-up time 都 41 months 轉移 24-60), the 部 disease-free, neck 餛 and distant 遠處 disease-free survivals 三年 86.6%, 97.3%, 三年 71.2% respectively. 焉 3-year overall 式 and disease-free 對 are 54.1% 是 65.7%. Most 根 failed due 治療 distant metastases.
Conclusion: 轉移 data indicate 失敗 accelerated radiotherapy 原因 advance NPC 再 both feasible 性化學 effective, with 減少 toxicities. Post-radiation 發生 chemotherapy to 值得 subclinical micrometastasis 研究 be further 放射 Radiol Oncol 腫瘤學 4:243-249］
目的 The survival 科技 nasopharyngeal cancer 許多 patient improved 患者 the advance 俊 the diagnostic 然而 and in ＋ facility of 醫療 Radiotherapy has 放在 the standard 燎效 treatment for 鼻咽癌 and failure 完成 completion of 瘴 treatment will 及其 lose the 矍則 for cure. 研究 are few 了解 to explore 中断 analyze the 因素 why NPC 或 interrupted or 全程 refused the 原因 treatment. The 增加 of this 機會 is to 林口 the problem.
Material 醫院 Methods: There 科自 2,860 NPC 共 registered in 鼻咽癌 Oncology Department 完成 Chang Gung 糠 Hospital from 歌查 to 1994. 資料 hundred and 根據 patients did 電話會 complete their 信件 after registration. 焉 survey from 位 records, telephone 之 mail contacts 位 used to 無法 the reasons 從 these patients 副作用 from the 治療 of local 症 One hundred 因 fifteen (44.4%) 虚弱 these 259 對 cannot tolerate 仍 acute reactions 偏方 the treatment 位 fear for 有 thought of 經濟 expected long-term 路途 Fifty-two patients 交通不便 had poor 位 condition, or 個案 ignored the 其它 Forty-eight patients 不 alternative treatments 放射 of the 手術 and seventeen 而 from economic 反對 The last 治療 patients either 吃 the support 者 family or 結論 to have 的 only by 併 referring physician.
Conclusion: 病患 effect of 治療 therapy in 因素 is one 人員應 the important 放射 to causing 之 cessation of 照顾 treatment. Alternative 纷 are another 教青 causing interruption 另類 local treatment. 極大 to have 討 on the 對 by radiotherapy 上 fear for 故臨床 complications remained 需 main causes 社會 interruption. It 等 important to 及 and help 病患 NPC patients 鼓勵 their family 全程 go through 之 local treatment.
[Therapeut 治療 Oncol 1997; ］
Purpose: 目的 survival of 科技 cancer (NPC) 許多 improved after 患者 advance in 俊 diagnostic technology 然而 in megavoltage ＋ of radiotherapy. 醫療 has become 放在 standard local 燎效 for NPC, 鼻咽癌 failure in 完成 of the 瘴 will almost 及其 the chance 矍則 cure. There 研究 few articles 了解 explore and 中断 the reasons 因素 NPC patients 或 or even 全程 the radiotherapy 原因 The aim 增加 this study 機會 to investigate 林口 problem.
Material and 醫院 There are 科自 NPC cases 共 in Radiation 鼻咽癌 Department of 完成 Gung Memorial 糠 from 1979 歌查 1994. Two 資料 and fifty-nine 根據 did not 電話會 their treatment 信件 registration. The 焉 from hospital 位 telephone or 之 contacts were 位 to analyze 無法 reasons why 從 patients escaped 副作用 the treatment 治療 local irradiation.
Results: 症 hundred and 因 (44.4%) in 虚弱 259 patients 對 tolerate the 仍 reactions of 偏方 treatment or 位 for the 有 of the 經濟 long-term sequels. 路途 patients (20.1%) 交通不便 poor general 位 or psychologically 個案 the disease. 其它 patients tried 不 treatments instead 放射 the radiotherapy 手術 seventeen suffered 而 economic problem. 反對 last 14 治療 either lacked 吃 support from 者 or converted 結論 have chemotherapy 的 by the 併 physician.
Conclusion: Adverse 病患 of radiation 治療 in NPC 因素 one of 人員應 important reasons 放射 causing the 之 of the 照顾 Alternative treatments 纷 another motivation 教青 interruption of 另類 treatment. Fail 極大 have faith 討 the curable 對 radiotherapy and 上 for the 故臨床 remained the 需 causes of 社會 It is 等 to encourage 及 help the 病患 patients and 鼓勵 family to 全程 through the 之 treatment.
[Therapeut Radiol 治療 1997; 4:251-257]
目的 To examine 何杰金 relationship of 之 characteristics, oncogenes 腫瘤 with one 其 and assess 發 correlation to 放射 RT resistance 係 non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma 臨 patients.
Materials and 治療 16 NHL 材料 after chemotherapy 例化學 nodal relapse 淋巴 eligible in 發 study. Immunohistochemical 病理切片 with various 斷 antibodies was 例 to stored 切片 nodal biopsy 可供 from 10 基因 patients. Univariate 組織 multivariate analysis 於 relationship between 結果 were performed 復 Fisher’s exact 照射 and logistic 用單 model, respectively.
Results: 多 find that 評估 of CD44 並與 significant associated 一 nodal AT 之 in univariate 單變 (p=0.011). Moreover, 發現 analysis of 放射 variables by 顯著 logistic regression 多變 reveals the 結果則 association of 表現 and bcl-2 上述 to nodal 結果 resistance (p=0.01 表現 and 0.0455, 非何 The results 之 an important 效果 of CD44 的 bcl-2 in 需 clinical predictive 病例 of nodal 做進 responses in ［ patients.
[Therapeut Aadiol 腫瘤學 1997; 4:259-264]
Purpose: 目的 examine the 何杰金 of patient 之 oncogenes expression 腫瘤 one another 其 assess their 發 to nodal 放射 resistance in 係 lymphoma (NHL) 臨 and Methods: 治療 NHL patients 材料 chemotherapy with 例化學 relapse were 淋巴 in this 發 Immunohistochemical stain 病理切片 various monoclonal 斷 was applied 例 stored fixed-paraffin-embeded 切片 biopsy specimen 可供 10 available 基因 Univariate and 組織 analysis of 於 between variables 結果 performed using 復 exact test 照射 logistic regression 用單 respectively.
Results: We 多 that expression 評估 CD44 is 並與 associated with 一 AT resistance 之 univariate analysis 單變 Moreover, multivariate 發現 of all 放射 by a 顯著 regression model 多變 the significant 結果則 of CD44 表現 bcl-2 overexpression 上述 nodal RT 結果 (p=0.01 12 表現 0.0455, respectively).
Conclusion: 非何 results suggest 之 important role 效果 CD44 and 的 in a 需 predictive model 病例 nodal RT 做進 in NHL ［ Aadiol Onool 腫瘤學 4:259-264]
目的 develop a 中子 to measure 量量 dose in 評估 high-energy photon 直線 generated by 產生 linear accelerator.
Materials 之中 Methods: Approximately 量 of phosphorus 與 P205 powder 公克 purity over ％ was placed 的 a 5 裝入 glass vial 玻璃瓶 capped. The 並置 was then 內 in the 射線 beam at 公尺 against the 面積 and irradiated × 40 Gy 照射 10MV to 戈雷 x-ray under 經過 field size 中子 40cm×40cm. Samples 場 P205 were 後 to a 反應 photon-neutron field ^ the reactions ) ^31P(n,y)^32P and ) The irradiated 活化 were then 蒸餾水 in distilled 以計測 and the 趨近 products were 之 using the 計測 scintillation counting 後 with a 活化 efficiency approaching 活度 The decay 量 of the 因子 was then 則可 to determine 快中子 fast and 的 neutron absorbed 劑量 for neutron 加速器 related to 輻射 size showed 多寡 the larger 加速器 size for 有關 the more 野面 contamination was 大時 The total 中子 fluence rate 也 by five 多 were in × range from 照射 to 10^6ncm^-2 戈雷 for 10MV 下 18MV x-ray 至 with photon 射線 of 40Gy 中子通量 field size 在 total neutron ^ dose was ^ 0.002% to 結論 compared with 加速器 x-ray dose 之中 the patient. 與 meets the 劑量 as set 比值 the Atomic ％ Council. The 此 is that 符合 neutron dose 員會 to neutron 劑量 produced by 病人 linear accelerator 劑量 voltage above 必須 should be 於 than 0.1% 之 radio-therapeutical dose 放射 the patient.
fTherapeut 與 Oncol 1997; : 265-270]
Purpose：To 目的 a technique 中子 measure neutron 量量 in a 評估 photon field 直線 by a 產生 accelerator.
Materials and 之中 Approximately 3.2g 量 phosphorus pentoxide 與 powder with 公克 over 98% ％ placed into 的 5 mL. 裝入 vial and 玻璃瓶 The vial 並置 then placed 內 the radiation 射線 at 1m 公尺 the target 面積 irradiated to × Gy for 照射 to 18MV 戈雷 under the 經過 size of 中子 Samples of 場 were exposed 後 a mixed 反應 field with ^ reactions of ) and ^31P(n,p)^31Si. ) irradiated samples 活化 then dissolved 蒸餾水 distilled water 以計測 the activation 趨近 were counted 之 the liquid 計測 counting techique 後 a counting 活化 approaching 100%. 活度 decay characteristics 量 the sample 因子 then analyzed 則可 determine the 快中子 and thermal 的 absorbed dose.
Results：Measurements 劑量 neutron contribution 加速器 to field 輻射 showed that 多寡 larger field 加速器 for irradiation, 有關 more neutron 野面 was generated. 大時 total neutron 中子 rate generated 也 five accelerators 多 in the × from 10^5 照射 10^6ncm^-2 s^-1 戈雷 10MV to 下 x-ray machines 至 photon dose 射線 40Gy and 中子通量 size 40cmX40cm.
Conclusion：The 在 neutron absorbed ^ was about ^ to 0.071% 結論 with treatment 加速器 dose to 之中 patient. It 與 the criteria 劑量 set by 比值 Atomic Energy ％ The requirement 此 that the 符合 dose due 員會 neutron contamination 劑量 by a 病人 accelerator with 劑量 above 7MV 必須 be less 於 0.1% of 之 dose to 放射 patient.
fTherapeut Radiol 與 1997; 4: :
前言 aim of 之 study is 在 develop a 總醫院 at Veterans 直線 Hospital-Taipei to 顱內 small lesion 高劑 the brain 照射 a high 照射 per fraction 機械 1mm geometric 可達 and 3% 劑量 accuracy. 
Materials 可達 Methods: The 差範圍 employs Varian 與 linear accelerator 研究 10MV X-Ray 採用 the Leksell 與 system. This 系統 technique combines 使用 multiple non-coplanar 弧形 irradiation and 配合 rigid collimator 鉛 to the 溝槽 of block 直儀 The cylindrical 柱形 inserts are 爲 by stainless 不 with 10cm 野直徑 Their field 可準確 opening range 劑量 15mm to 點上 in diameter 於 confine the 之外 dose to 將會 target and 向 dose fall-off 病患 the target 包含 The patient 固定 system consists 於 stereotactic base 的 and head 底座 posts that 等 be directly 指示器 on the 定出 couch. The 中心 position frame 量尺 isocenter front 測量 are used 各 adjusting the 與 point of 照射 A ruler 此系統 used for 準須 depth of 之機械 at various 確度 and directions.
Results：This 之準 was systematically 到 within 1-mm 統之漏 geometric and 於 dosimetric accuracy 輸 All of 組織 inserts showed 比 flaw and 可供 radiation leakage 等劑 less than 圖 Dose rate 利用 tissue-phantom-ratio table 系統 been setup 並經 dosimetry purpose. 驗證 curve were 空間 by water 定位 and verified 計畫 radiation sensitive 整佃 and TLD 扮演 three-dimensional computerized 的 planning system 可用 essential for 至 radio-surgery device. 照野 detetors capable 偵測器 measuring 5-mm 達到 field and 光密度 dosimetry with 為 accuracy are 放射 equipment for 管制 control of 儀器 radiosurgery procedure.
Conclusion: 研究 test and 與 dosimetry study 研究 been complied; 完成 technique is 可供 for future 使用 study and ［ Radiol Oncol 與 4:27 1-279］
Purpose：The 前言 of this 之 is to 在 a technique 總醫院 Veterans General 直線 to irradiate 顱內 lesion in 高劑 brain to 照射 high dose 照射 fraction with 機械 geometric accuracy 可達 3% dosimetric 劑量 
Materials and 可達 The technique 差範圍 Varian CL-1800 與 accelerator with 研究 X-Ray and 採用 Leksell stereotactic 與 This treatment 系統 combines with 使用 non-coplanar arc 弧形 and secondary 配合 collimator mouhting 鉛 the slot 溝槽 block tray. 直儀 cylindrical collimator 柱形 are made 爲 stainless steel 不 10cm thickness. 野直徑 field size 可準確 range from 劑量 to 30mm 點上 diameter and 於 the accurate 之外 to the 將會 and steep 向 fall-off outside 病患 target volume. 包含 patient fixation 固定 consists of 於 base ring 的 head fixing 底座 that can 等 directly mounted 指示器 the treatment 定出 The target 中心 frame and 量尺 front pointer 測量 used for 各 the target 與 of isocenter. 照射 ruler is 此系統 for measuring 準須 of tumor 之機械 various planes 確度 directions.
Results：This system 之準 systematically tested 到 1-mm mechanical 統之漏 and 2% 於 accuracy respectively. 輸 of collimator 組織 showed no 比 and the 可供 leakage was 等劑 than 7%. 圖 rate and 利用 table had 系統 setup for 並經 purpose. Isodose 驗證 were established 空間 water phantom 定位 verified by 計畫 sensitive films 整佃 TLD dosimetry.
Discussion：A 扮演 computerized treatment 的 system is 可用 for stereotactic 至 device. Dosimetry 照野 capable of 偵測器 5-mm diameter 達到 and film 光密度 with 1mm 為 are indispensable 放射 for quality 管制 of this 儀器 procedure.
Conclusion: Apparatus 研究 and basic 與 study had 研究 complied; The 完成 is ready 可供 future pre-clinical 使用 and evaluation.
［Therapeot ［ Oncol 1997; 與 1-279］
目的 It is 中 to deliver 主要 dose from 腹腔 irradiation to 胰臟癌 tumor or 直腸癌 bed in 施以 abdominal cavity 治療 the consideration 集中 the tolerance 治療 of adjacent 鄰近 tissues. Intraoperative 被 (IORT) then 減少 developed to 以 high dose 所無法 the target 之 the hope 中 increasing local 治療 and sparing 放置 damage to 儀及 critical organs. 庚 adapter to 腫瘤 accelerator fur 此 and the 設計 cone application 材料 the key 林口 the IORT 醫院 and were 及 in our 之 and Methods: ] IORT adapter 連接 a set 於 applicator - 準直 cone were 有 and made 之 Radiation Oncology 大小 of Chang 此 Memorial Hospital. 錐 apparatus consists 下 several items; 可依錐體 IORT adapter: 作 [a] docking 其 [b] beam 公分 apparatus: made 足以 1-4cm thickness 射線 lead that [ the electron 錐體 shapes. (2) 照野 different electron 內部 were designed, 腫瘤 circular, horseshoe 相同 pentagonal shapes. 設計 applicators had 圓錐體 flat or 錐體 oblique at 斜巧度 end facing 斜 patient. (3) 錐體 copper of 防止 high and 輻射 thick was 設計 at the 接角觸 of the 外為 to reduce 故 scattering of 加一銅片 beam.
Results: By 散射 the digital 組織 to measure 使用 inclination of 之數 electron cone, 儀 then to 水平 the set 皆 angles of 此 applicator, the 正確 cone can 調整 aligned to 錐 adapter without 呈現 diffculty.
Conclusion: This 病患 can be 上下 for the 錐體 without any 的 and it 所花費 only 30 約 40 minutes 分鐘 complete the 設計 procedures, including 快捷 up of 以期 intraoperative applicators 治療 the treatment 目標 
［Therapeut Radiol 治療 1997; 4:281-284］
Purpose: 目的 is dangerous 中 deliver high 主要 from external 腹腔 to the 胰臟癌 or tumor 直腸癌 in the 施以 cavity without 治療 consideration of 集中 tolerance limitation 治療 adjacent normal 鄰近 Intraoperative radiotherapy 被 then was 減少 to deliver 以 dose to 所無法 target in 之 hope of 中 local control 治療 sparing the 放置 to adjacent 儀及 organs. The 庚 to linear 腫瘤 fur IORT 此 the electron 設計 application were 材料 key to 林口 IORT procedure 醫院 were developed 及 our department.
Material 之 Methods: An ] adapter and 連接 set of 於 - electron 準直 were designed 有 made in 之 Oncology Department 大小 Chang Gung 此 Hospital. The 錐 consists of 下 items; (I) 可依錐體 adapter: including 作 docking adapter, 其 beam shaping 公分 made by 足以 thickness of 射線 that matched [ electron cone 錐體 (2) Applicators: 照野 electron cones 內部 designed, including 腫瘤 horseshoe and 相同 shapes. The 設計 had either 圓錐體 or 15-degree 錐體 at the 斜巧度 facing the 斜 (3) A 錐體 of 2cm 防止 and 0.5cm 輻射 was mounted 設計 the end 接角觸 the applicator 外為 reduce the 故 of electron 加一銅片 By using 散射 digital level 組織 measure the 使用 of the 之數 cone, and 儀 to determine 水平 set up 皆 of the 此 the electron 正確 can be 調整 to the 錐 without any 呈現 This design 病患 be applied 上下 the IORT 錐體 any difficulty, 的 it takes 所花費 30 to 約 minutes to 分鐘 the whole 設計 including setting 快捷 of the 以期 applicators and 治療 treatment time. 目標 Radiol Oncol 治療 4:281-284］
目的 therapy has 癌病 important role 腫瘤 cancer management. 有 the responsibilities 的 nursing care 目前 the department 對 radiation oncology 科護理 still controversy. 職掌 this study, 以致 investigated, analyzed 故 current situation 探討 the role 之 radiation oncology 日 in order 腫瘤 raise the 角色 of nursing 參考 in this 護理 and Methods：On 病患 1997, we 方法 a questionnaires 國內 11 medical 放射 and analyzed 之 different duties 依 radiation oncology 問發出 in their 內容 questionnaires had 回答 returned for 做 The duties 結果 radiation oncology 信件 included outpatient 件 service, brachytherapy 科護理 patient education, 職掌 registration, chemotherapy 協助 nutritional consultation, 協談 treatment arrangement 追踪 The number 營養 full time 病患 in the 流程 ranged from 全職護理 to 12. 多 nurses have 有 duty of 的 service in 有 hospitals. Only 人員要 departments have 治療 qualified examination 有護理 the nurses.
Conclusion：Most 考試 the department 家 have complained 放射 manpower of 主管 are not 護理 for the 目前 duties. The 之 Nursing Society 腫瘤 Radiation Oncology 放射 should have 設立 responsibility to 護理 the standard 適當 nursing care 課程 the department 腫瘤 radiation oncology. 角色 the hospital 讓 will conform 重視 this standard 護理 adjust the 提升 in the ［ of radiation 與 Radiol Oncol ;
Purpose：Radiation 目的 has an 癌病 role in 腫瘤 management. However, 有 responsibilities of 的 care in 目前 department of 對 oncology are 科護理 controversy. In 職掌 study, we 以致 analyzed the 故 situation of 探討 role of 之 oncology nurses 日 order to 腫瘤 the quality 角色 nursing care 參考 this aspect.
Materials 護理 Methods：On May, 病患 we designed 方法 questionnaires for 國內 medical centers 放射 analyzed the 之 duties of 依 oncology nurses 問發出 their departments.
Results：10 內容 had been 回答 for analysis. 做 duties of 結果 oncology nurse 信件 outpatient clinic 件 brachytherapy care, 科護理 education, cancer 職掌 chemotherapy service, 協助 consultation, patient's 協談 arrangement etc. 追踪 number of 營養 time nurses 病患 the departments 流程 from 2 全職護理 12. The 多 have the 有 of chemotherapy 的 in 5 有 Only two 人員要 have annual 治療 examination for 有護理 nurses.
Conclusion：Most of 考試 department chairmen 家 complained the 放射 of nurses 主管 not enough 護理 the daily 目前 The Oncology 之 Society and 腫瘤 Oncology Society 放射 have the 設立 to establish 護理 standard of 適當 care in 課程 department of 腫瘤 oncology. Hence, 角色 hospital administrators 讓 conform to 重視 standard to 護理 the manpowers 提升 the department ［ radiation oncology.
[Therapeut 與 Oncol 1997；4:285-289]
目的 A task 科技 consisting of 專家 accelerator engineers 一九九六年 radiation oncologists 「 Taiwan has 加速器 a feasibility 應用 to establish 的 proton accelerator 評估 for medical 計畫 scientific applications; 參訪 report is 最新 excerpt of 加速器 accelerator (and 部份 beam hardwares) 後 of the 以供 The information 高能 mostly derived 應用 site visits 癌腫瘤 several modern 腦部 in the 症是 States and 物理 The use 工程 accelerating proton 醫學 to effectively 一大 solid tumors 過去 arteriovenous malformations 是 one of 利用 major breakthroughs 在寅驗 combine physics, 治療 and engineering 已 medicine in 醫學界 twentieth century. 近年 the past, 發展 clinical outcomes 把 proton therapy 治療 use of 建造 beams at 內 laboratories have 的 been recognized 含旋 the medical 焦架 More recent 治療 including the 劑量 of accelerator 達到 within a 本文 and the 今日 of isocentric 最新 delivery gantry 設備 the 3D 各種 dose distribution 及 reach its 設備 optimum status.
Conclusions: 治療 accelerator of 加速器 proton therapy 可分 can be 迴 from a 及 accelerator, a 三種 or a 以 The latter 及 kinds of 為 are the 對象 choices for 各有利弊 use and 加速器 has its 尚有 advantages and 射束 In addition 射束 an accelerator, 及 extraction and 定位 system, beam 治療 system, and 重要 positioning system 治療 all integral 系統 of the 及 Further, treatment 的 system, quality 都 and radiation 的 measures are 措施 for the 治療 Radiol Oncol : 4:291-297]
Purpose: 目的 task force 科技 of scientists, 專家 engineers and 一九九六年 oncologists in 「 has completed 加速器 feasibility study 應用 establish a 的 accelerator facility 評估 medical and 計畫 applications; this 參訪 is an 最新 of the 加速器 (and related 部份 hardwares) part 後 the study. 以供 information is 高能 derived from 應用 visits to 癌腫瘤 modern facilities 腦部 the United 症是 and Japan.
Description: 物理 use of 工程 proton beams 醫學 effectively control 一大 tumors and 過去 malformations is 是 of the 利用 breakthroughs that 在寅驗 physics, biology 治療 engineering for 已 in the 醫學界 century. In 近年 past, the 發展 outcomes of 把 therapy by 治療 of proton 建造 at physics 內 have already 的 recognized by 含旋 medical community. 焦架 recent advances 治療 the building 劑量 accelerator facility 達到 a hospital 本文 the development 今日 isocentric beam 最新 gantry permit 設備 3D physical 各種 distribution to 及 its ever 設備 status.
Conclusions: The 治療 of a 加速器 therapy facility 可分 be selected 迴 a linear 及 a cyclotron, 三種 a synchrotron. 以 latter two 及 of accelerators 為 the current 對象 for hospital 各有利弊 and each 加速器 its own 尚有 and disadvantages. 射束 addition to 射束 accelerator, beam 及 and transport 定位 beam delivery 治療 and patient 重要 system are 治療 integral parts 系統 the facility. 及 treatment planning 的 quality control 都 radiation safety 的 are essential 措施 the operation.
[Therapeut 治療 Oncol 1997; :
目的 evaluate the 一例 of using 神經 radiotherapy and 使用 in a 多重 of gastric 的 with gross 與 tumor.
Materials and 年 January 1997, 歲 76-year-old male, 因 with acute 腹痛 with signs 胃出血 gastrointestinal breeding, 緊急 emergent exploratory 發現 Bleeding site 處 determined to 因 due to 性腫瘤 perforated tumor 手術 the body 發現 stomach. Other 有 findings revealed 腫瘤 massive necrotic 腫瘤經 in the 後 fundus. The 止血 tumor in 術 body was 的 However, the 病人 fundal tumor 殘留 left intact. 放射 weeks after 使用 the residual 機器 was irradiated 直線 the 6MV 光子 accelerator photon 總劑 Total dose 分成 5,000 cGy 照射 28 fractions 治療 given. One 病人 of chemotherapy 一次 5-Fluorouracil (500mg/rn^2), 併 (200mg/m^2) Day 治療 to Day 藥物 was given ( Five more ) of chemotherapy ) the same 至 were given 治療 completion of 後 radiotherapy was 再度 patient complained 的 abdominal pain 化療 giddiness. Tarry 治療 was still 病人 Three weeks 的 concurrent chemoradiotherapy 便 claimed that 治療 and distension 週 improved a 第一次 He was 化療 to swallow 覺得 foods without 有 abdominal discomfort. 病人 completion of 而且 patient was 引起 ambulatory and 腹痛 to come 治療 OPD for 後 regulary by 自己 After completion 化學 chemotherapy, repeated 後 revealed complete 腫瘤 of the 消失 Patient at 已 is alive 個 evidence of 在 and is 有限 his eleventh 經驗 of follow 顯示 our limited 癌症 the use 對 combined modality 病人 to have 效果 excellent result ［ this patient.
[Therapeut 治療 Oncol 1997; :
Purpose：To 目的 the effect 一例 using combined 神經 and chemotherapy 使用 a case 多重 gastric schwannoma 的 gross residual 與 and Methods：In 年 1997, a 歲 male, presenting 因 acute abdomen 腹痛 signs of 胃出血 breeding, received 緊急 exploratory laparotomy. 發現 site was 處 to be 因 to a 性腫瘤 tumor in 手術 body of 發現 Other operative 有 revealed huge 腫瘤 necrotic tumors 腫瘤經 the gastric 後 The peroforated 止血 in the 術 was resected. 的 the huge 病人 tumor was 殘留 intact. Three 放射 after surgery, 使用 residual tumor 機器 irradiated using 直線 6MV linear 光子 photon beams. 總劑 dose of 分成 cGy in 照射 fractions was 治療 One course 病人 chemotherapy using 一次 (500mg/rn^2), Leucovorin 併 Day 1 治療 Day 5 藥物 given concurrently. ( more courses ) chemotherapy using ) same regimen 至 given after 治療 of radiotherapy.
Results：Before 後 was started, 再度 complained of 的 pain and 化療 Tarry stool 治療 still noted. 病人 weeks after 的 chemoradiotherapy patient 便 that pain 治療 distension had 週 a lot. 第一次 was able 化療 swallow solid 覺得 without much 有 discomfort. After 病人 of radiotherapy, 而且 was completely 引起 and able 腹痛 come to 治療 for chemotherapy 後 by himself. 自己 completion of 化學 repeated endoscopy 後 complete regression 腫瘤 the tumor. 消失 at present 已 alive without 個 of disease 在 is in 有限 eleventh month 經驗 follow up.
Conclusion：In 顯示 limited experience, 癌症 use of 對 modality seemed 病人 have provided 效果 result to ［ patient.
[Therapeut Radiol 治療 1997; 4:299-303]
目的 Study of 放射 influence of 維生素 acid (AA) 對 the radiobiologic 卵巢 of high 神經 radiation on ) and 0BM8401 效應 and Methods: 與 and GBM84O1 外繼 grown in 細胞 phase were 對象 in all 對 Each cell 只 was further ~ into control 先以 experimental groups, 接受 Cells of 之 group received 照射 (8~16Gy) only. 經過 of experimental 群落 were treated 生存 AA and 中 irradiated. After 模式 days in 生存 survival fractions 其 irradiated cells β analyzed by 輻射 assay. The 參數 curves and 這些 parameters including 效應 and α/β 高劑 analyzed by 細胞 model.
Results: The 生存 values of 放射 CHO cells 而 with and 量 AA were α and 4.43, 而 Similarly, The 二小 values of 高劑 GBM8401 cells 細胞 with and 爲 AA were 高劑 and 9.41, 之 Slopes of 爲 curves for 再 cells decreased 之 treatment with 值 However, it 後 more significant 生存 CHO cells 其中 GBM8401 cells. 明顯 addition, the 效應 the dose 照射 radiation, the 隨著劑 radio- protective 明顯 of AA 後 cells.
Conclusion: AA 高 the radiobiologic 輻射 of CHO 愈 GBM840I cells 之 high dose 都 The radioprotective 在 of AA 照射 these cells 及 proportional to 生物 dose in 愈 range of 明顯
Purpose: 目的 of the 放射 of ascorbic 維生素 (AA) on 對 radiobiologic effects 卵巢 high dose 神經 on CHO ) 0BM8401 cells.
Materials 效應 Methods: CHO 與 GBM84O1 cells 外繼 in plateau 細胞 were used 對象 all experiments. 對 cell line 只 further divided ~ control and 先以 groups, respectively. 接受 of control 之 received irradiation 照射 only. Cells 經過 experimental group 群落 treated with 生存 and then 中 After 10 模式 in culture, 生存 fractions of 其 cells were β by clonogenic 輻射 The survival 參數 and related 這些 including α/β, 效應 α/β were 高劑 by Linear-Quadratic 細胞 The α/β 生存 of irradiated 放射 cells treated 而 and without 量 were 9.28 α 4.43, respectively. 而 The α/β 二小 of irradiated 高劑 cells treated 細胞 and without 爲 were 19.65 高劑 9.41, respectively. 之 of survival 爲 for both 再 decreased after 之 with AA. 值 it was 後 significant for 生存 cells than 其中 cells. In 明顯 the higher 效應 dose of 照射 the greater 隨著劑 protective effect 明顯 AA on 後 AA decreased 高 radiobiologic effects 輻射 CHO and 愈 cells under 之 dose irradiation. 都 radioprotective effects 在 AA on 照射 cells were 及 to radiation 生物 in the 愈 of 8~16Gy.
目的 The objective 研究 this research 目的 to synthesize 中子 prepare radiopharmaceuticals 之 neutron-activated Ho 肝癌 The in 核醫藥劑 stability of 藥物 was tested, 定性 the interaction 對 the radiopharmaceuticals 之 hepatoma cells 材料 investigated.
Materials and 將 In order 製 generate Ho ( the non-radioactive 於 (Ho-165-AcAc) was 水池 and irradiated 進行 the Tsing 照射 Open-Pool Reactor. 成釋 channel analyzer 高能 used for 輻射 of the 以多 and the 能 of the 儀 Lipiodol was 藥物 as a 強度 of Ho-166-AcAc. 所得 stability of 以 in serum 攜帶 tested. The 並 of Ho-l65-AcAc 中測試 with human 定性 cells (HepG2 之人類 was investigated.
Result: ( this study, 探討 prepared Ho-l65-AcAc 肝癌 were irradiated 之 the nuclear 置 for up 反應器 10 hr 垂直 yielded 16-l8mCi/SOmg 照射 specific activity. 所 addition, in 放射 analysis of 活性 stability of 經 in plasma 中中試 a 98% 顯示 of Ho-166 ％ the Ho-l66-AcAc-lipiodol 保存 120 hr. 相 vitro treatment 細胞 HepG2 cells 處理 24 hr 顯微鏡 Ho-165-AcAc-lipiodol resulted 可見 a retention 脂球 1.3µg of 其中 in 106 內 Thus, from 量 specific activity µ Ho-166-AcAc-lipiodol the 藥時 radioactivity of 放射 in HepG2 可以 can be 得 Ho I 中 contained sufficient 活性 energy J3 攜帶 and has 輻射釋 high stability 核種 serum. in 之穩 cell culture 高 showed that 實驗 amount of 可為 can be 細胞 by hepatoma 攝入 Results of 外 in vitro 未來 provided important 實驗 information for 基本 development and 藥物 vitro tests. 可 Ho-I 66-AcAc-lipiodol 一新 potential for 體內 hepatoma therapy.
Objective: 目的 objective of 研究 research was 目的 synthesize and 中子 radiopharmaceuticals containing 之 Ho 166. 肝癌 in vitro 核醫藥劑 of Ho-166-radiopharmaceuticals 藥物 tested, and 定性 interaction of 對 radiopharmaceuticals with 之 cells was 材料 and Methods: 將 order to 製 Ho 166, ( non-radioactive Ho-165-acetylacetonate 於 was prepared 水池 irradiated in 進行 Tsing Hua 照射 Reactor. Multiple 成釋 analyzer was 高能 for analysis 輻射 the radioactivity 以多 the purity 能 the Ho-166-AcAc. 儀 was used 藥物 a carrier 強度 Ho-166-AcAc. The 所得 of Ho-166-AcAc-lipiodol 以 serum was 攜帶 The interaction 並 Ho-l65-AcAc lipiodol 中測試 human hepatoma 定性 (HepG2 cells) 之人類 investigated.
Result: In ( study, the 探討 Ho-l65-AcAc samples 肝癌 irradiated in 之 nuclear reactor 置 up to 反應器 hr and 垂直 16-l8mCi/SOmg of 照射 activity. In 所 in vitro 放射 of the 活性 of Ho-166-AcAc-lipiodol 經 plasma revealed 中中試 98% retention 顯示 Ho-166 in ％ Ho-l66-AcAc-lipiodol after 保存 hr. In 相 treatment of 細胞 cells for 處理 hr with 顯微鏡 resulted in 可見 retention of 脂球 of Ho-165-AcAc 其中 106 cells. 內 from the 量 activity of µ the potential 藥時 of Ho-166 放射 HepG2 cells 可以 be evaluated.
Conclusion: 得 I 66-AcAc-lipiodol 中 sufficient high 活性 J3 emitter 攜帶 has a 輻射釋 stability in 核種 in vitro 之穩 culture analysis 高 that large 實驗 of I-lo-165-AcAc-lipiodol 可為 be uptake 細胞 hepatoma cells. 攝入 of this 外 vitro study 未來 important basic 實驗 for future 基本 and in 藥物 tests. The 可 66-AcAc-lipiodol has 一新 for future 體內 therapy.
目的 To evaluate 年 feasibility of 至 adjuvant concurrent 位 and radiotherapy 高 locally advanced 於 cancer patients
Materials 基金 Methods: From 逸仙 1993 to 手術後合 1995, 13 化療 who had 之 advanced gastric 治療 were treated 研究 postoperative concurrent 評估 and radiotherapy 局部 at the 胃癌 Foundation Sun 進行術後合 Cancer Center. 及 was given 輔助 the range 之 3440 cGy 與 4320 cGy 放射 4 to 手術 weeks to 至 gastric bed 於 upper abdominal 投予 draining regions 及 4 to 引流 weeks after 至 All patients 每位 computerized tomography 皆 planning and 電腦 shaping blocks. 計畫 based chemotherapy 特 either monthly 塊 weekly continuous 治療 were prescribed 同時 Four patients 為主 grade 3 或 and vomiting. 式 of them 結果 the CCRT 發生 after the 嘔吐及 of 3440 其中 At the 時 follow up 結束 of 20 病人 (ranged from 追 to 48 個 10 patients 至 free of 月 Three patients 病人 recurrence.
Conclusion: Our 單獨性 results suggest 復 the acute 一位 were moderate 於 patients with 局部 advanced gastric 發 who underwent 併 CCRT using 復 based chemotherapy 有 radiotherapy up 發生 4000 cGy 轉移 standard fractionation. 局部 short term 性 control and 病人 are promising 化療 compared with 放療 reported by 其 institutions with 副作用 treatment in 接受 gastric patients. 短期 suggest gastric 疾病 patients with 存活率 4 or 其他 2 disease 結果 be enrolled 合 clinical trial 化療 adjuvant therapy 最 The most 的 radiation dosage 劑量 chemotherapy regimen 進 further investigation.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 年 of postoperative 至 concurrent chemotherapy 位 radiotherapy for 高 advanced gastric 於 patients
Materials and 基金 From September 逸仙 to December 手術後合 13 patients 化療 had locally 之 gastric cancer 治療 treated with 研究 concurrent chemotherapy 評估 radiotherapy (CCRT) 局部 the Koo 胃癌 Sun Yat-Sen 進行術後合 Center. Radiotherapy 及 given in 輔助 range of 之 cGy to 與 cGy in 放射 to 5 手術 to the 至 bed and 於 abdominal nodal 投予 regions beginning 及 to 6 引流 after surgery. 至 patients had 每位 tomography treatment 皆 and customized 電腦 blocks. 5-Fluorouraoil 計畫 chemotherapy with 特 monthly or 塊 continuous infusion 治療 prescribed concomitantly.
Results: 同時 patients developed 為主 3 nausea 或 vomiting. One 式 them discontinued 結果 CCRT earlier 發生 the dose 嘔吐及 3440 cGy. 其中 the median 時 up interval 結束 20 months 病人 from 11 追 48 months), 個 patients were 至 of disease. 月 patients developed 病人 Our preliminary 單獨性 suggest that 復 acute toxicity 一位 moderate for 於 with locally 局部 gastric cancer 發 underwent postoperative 併 using 5-FU 復 chemotherapy and 有 up to 發生 cGy in 轉移 fractionation. The 局部 term disease 性 and survival 病人 promising as 化療 with those 放療 by other 其 with adjuvant 副作用 in resected 接受 patients. We 短期 gastric cancer 疾病 with T3, 存活率 or N1, 其他 disease should 結果 enrolled into 合 trial of 化療 therapy postoperatively. 最 most appropriate 的 dosage and 劑量 regimen needs 進 investigation.
目的 This study 增添 to analyze 線 prognosis and 對子 the effect 放射 additional radiation 腫瘤 to incomplete-regressed 效果 cancer after 分析 radiotherapy.
Materials and 與 From 1979-1988, 自 cervical carcinoma 本院 were treated 位子 definitive radiotherapy 接受 Chang Sung 的 Hospital (CGMH), 治療 After the 的 of treatment, 在 lesions showed 時 regression; among 有 74 were 其 cell carcinoma, 爲 were adenocarcinoma, Ⅱ 1 was Ⅲ carcinoma. There Ⅲ one stage 病理 21 ⅡB, 位屬 ⅢA, 41 位是 and 13 及 Incomplete regression 細胞癌 tumor was 之 as having 完全 or visible 以 noted through 在 the treatment 的 and at 週及療 time of 追 four weeks 檢 the completion 爲 treatment. Thirty 此 received additional 病患 (ART), and 了 received no 放射 therapy (NRT). 治療 was delivered ) external beam, 之 or electron 繼續 Dose ranged 蹤 5 Gy 察 40 Gy, ) 18 Gy). 是 follow-up was 一般 year.
Results: We 治療 similar local 治療 in ART 電子 NRT groups 治療 and 94%, 從 The incidence 等 distant metastasis 中間 20% and 結果 respectively for 的 and NAT 失敗率 Overall survival 和 2 years 轉移則 2% for ( and 17% 兩年 patients received 是 (p=0.354). There ) two grade 中有 and one 及 IV complications 之病 patients received 死亡 but their 與 was due 無關 cancer, not 緩子 complication. ART 殘餘 delay the 惡化 of residual 爲 with a 局部 of 0.007, 之 it had 效果 beneficial gain 子宮 terms of 放射 local and 仍 control.
Conclusions: For 殘餘 cervical cancer 並 standard radiotherapy, 改善 cannot improve 但 outcome of 病灶 and tumor 惡化 but may 作用 the residual 增添 progression. Therefore 量 ultimal ways 對 ART to 殘餘 incomplete-regressed cervical 方法 deserve further 改進
Purpose: 目的 study is 增添 analyze the 線 and evaluate 對子 effect of 放射 radiation dose 腫瘤 incomplete-regressed cervical 效果 after definitive 分析 and Methods: 與 1979-1988, 552 自 carcinoma patients 本院 treated with 位子 radiotherapy at 接受 Sung Memorial 的 (CGMH), Taiwan. 治療 the completion 的 treatment, 79 在 showed incomplete 時 among them, 有 were squamous 其 carcinoma, 4 爲 adenocarcinoma, and Ⅱ was adenosquamous Ⅲ There were Ⅲ stage ⅡA, 病理 ⅡB, 3 位屬 41 ⅢB, 位是 13 IVA. 及 regression of 細胞癌 was defined 之 having palpable 完全 visible disease 以 through out 在 treatment course 的 at the 週及療 of follow-up 追 weeks after 檢 completion of 爲 Thirty patients 此 additional radiotherapy 病患 and 49 了 no further 放射 (NRT). ART 治療 delivered by ) beam, brachytherapy 之 electron cone. 繼續 ranged from 蹤 Gy to 察 Gy, (median ) Gy). Minimal 是 was one 一般 We observed 治療 local failures 治療 ART and 電子 groups (93% 治療 94%, respectively). 從 incidence of 等 metastasis were 中間 and 33% 結果 for ART 的 NAT (p=0.24l). 失敗率 survival at 和 years was 轉移則 for NRT, ( 17% for 兩年 received ART 是 There were ) grade Ⅲ 中有 one grade 及 complications in 之病 received ART, 死亡 their death 與 due to 無關 not to 緩子 ART did 殘餘 the progression 惡化 residual tumor 爲 a p-value 局部 0.007, yet 之 had no 效果 gain in 子宮 of survival, 放射 and distal 仍 For incomplete-regressed 殘餘 cancer after 並 radiotherapy, ART 改善 improve their 但 of survivals 病灶 tumor control 惡化 may delay 作用 residual tumor's 增添 Therefore the 量 ways of 對 to treat 殘餘 cervical cancer 方法 further investigation.
目的 The existence 電子 an air 中 between the 與 material and 無法 skin surface 空氣間 often encountered 研究 electron beam 不同 This study 隔 the perturbation 表面 of air 造成 under bolus 與 on the 使用 dose.
Materials and 離腔 The surface 對劑 was measured 隔 air gaps 至 a distance 射線 0.0cm to 及 using 6, 等 12, 16 照射 20 MeV × beams and × available cone 等 from 6×6, 厚度 and 20×20 公分 on a 當 accelerator
Results: In 為 case of 時 cm^2 cone 對劑 with different 隨 of boluses 空氣間 electron energy, 射線 relative surface ％ decreased from 當 to 85.2% 為 the air 時 was increased. 對劑 l0×l0 cm^2cone ％ the relative ％ dose decreased 範圍 100% to 平方公分 In 20×20 表相 cone size 由 relative surface 結論 decreased from 結果 to 97.1%. 當電子 These measurements 愈低 that there 愈小 a tendency 的 relatively decreasing 愈 dose by 愈厚 electron energies, 電子 field sizes, 表面 air gaps, 影響 thicker boluses. 的 is necessary 適度 correct the 是 with individual dosimetry.
Purpose: 目的 existence of 電子 air gap 中 the bolus 與 and the 無法 surface is 空氣間 encountered in 研究 beam therapy. 不同 study investigated 隔 perturbation effect 表面 air gaps 造成 bolus material 與 the surface 使用 and Methods: 離腔 surface dose 對劑 measured for 隔 gaps from 至 distance of 射線 to 2.0cm 及 6, 9, 等 16 and 照射 MeV electron × and various × cone sizes 等 6×6, 10×l0, 厚度 20×20 cm^2 公分 a linear 當 In the 為 of 6×6 時 cone size 對劑 different thickness 隨 boluses and 空氣間 energy, the 射線 surface dose ％ from 100% 當 85.2% as 為 air gap 時 increased. In 對劑 cm^2cone size ％ relative surface ％ decreased from 範圍 to 93.7%. 平方公分 20×20 cm^2 表相 size the 由 surface dose 結論 from 100% 結果 97.1%. 
Conclusions: 當電子 measurements showed 愈低 there was 愈小 tendency of 的 decreasing surface 愈 by lower 愈厚 energies, smaller 電子 sizes, larger 表面 gaps, and 影響 boluses. It 的 necessary to 適度 the problem 是 individual dosimetry.
目的 It is 治療 necessary to 治療 scatter radiation 正常 to the 較 normal organs 之 most radiation 了 procedures. One 地評 perform the 組織 and linearity 劑量 for TLD 對熱 advance so 進行 the scattered 與 can be 材料 determined.
Material and 本 The TLD-100H 下 used for 劑量 measurement in 建立 study. A 量 for selection 時 calibration of 量 in low-level 與 exposure is 數的 and their 也 response curves 量 also determined. 以 verify the 電量 relationship between 劑量 charges and 係 doses, a 不 test is 以驗證 presented to 結果 that the 由 uncertainty is 篩選 3% of 本次 Five out 顆 25 TLD-100H, 顆在 to report 時 predict doses 差度 3% error 以內 and therefore 刪除 eliminated from 性度 study. The 在 of TLDs 計讀 that the 照射 performance is 為線 with determination 且 of 0.9999 數 the range ) 0~0.9 cGy.
Conclusion: 在 TLD-100H is 時 stable and 高之靈 and is 相當 useful in 適合 radiation detection. 輻射 the TLD-100H 後 carefully selected 研究 calibrated, then 與 overall error 在 is controlled 時 3%, which 準度 applicable for ％ studies.
Purpose: 目的 is clinically 治療 to evaluate 治療 radiation dose 正常 the adjacent 較 organs in 之 radiation therapy 了 One must 地評 the calibration 組織 linearity test 劑量 TLD in 對熱 so that 進行 scattered dose 與 be accurately 材料 and Method: 本 TLD-100H is 下 for dose 劑量 in the 建立 A method 量 selection and 時 of TLD 量 low-level radiation 與 is proposed, 數的 their dose 也 curves are 量 determined. To 以 the linear 電量 between collected 劑量 and received 係 a blind 不 is also 以驗證 to ensure 結果 the overall 由 is under 篩選 of error.
Result: 本次 out of 顆 TLD-100H, failed 顆在 report their 時 doses within 差度 error rate 以內 therefore were 刪除 from the 性度 The test 在 TLDs verified 計讀 the linearity 照射 is satisfactory 為線 determination coefficient 且 0.9999 in 數 range of ) cGy.
Conclusion: The 在 is very 時 and sensitive, 高之靈 is especially 相當 in low-level 適合 detection. If 輻射 TLD-100H us 後 selected and 研究 then the 與 error rate 在 controlled within 時 which is 準度 for clinical ％
放射 is one 惡性 the most 於 methods in 放射 of malignant 效果 But in 但是 conditions, such 或是 advanced tumors, 治療 tumors, success 相當 radiotherapy is 放射 peoples seeking 正常 high RBE, 提高 low OER 線腫瘤 for such 與 tumors.
Cf-252 is 線 only one 所 radioisotope emitted 之 high RBE 時約 lower OER 約 characteristics of 之 Beam.
In this 但 we have 其值並 some cases 中子 oral cancer, 濃度 with Cf252 達 after loading 較 intra oral 之 Both cases 理想 well responded 獲得 neutron therapy, 於 one case 組織 10 months 骨壞 died with 發癌 and the 的 one died 治療 months later 引起 evidence of 可以 According to 而 experiences, We 之 oral cancer 中子 can tolerate 特徵 therapy well 復 have good 對 to it, 改善 fur her 來 about the 中子 therapy for 的 disease in 著者 and radiobiological 發性 is necessary.
Radiotherapy 放射 one of 惡性 most effective 於 in treament 放射 malignant tumors. 效果 in some 但是 such as 或是 tumors, hypoxic 治療 success of 相當 is limited, 放射 seeking for 正常 RBE, and 提高 OER radiation 線腫瘤 such radioresistant 與 is the 線 one man-made 所 emitted neutrons. 之 RBE and 時約 OER are 約 of Neutron 之 this paper 但 have experienced 其值並 cases of 中子 cancer, treatment 濃度 Cf252 remote 達 loading system 較 oral brachytherapy. 之 cases are 理想 responded to 獲得 therapy, but 於 case recurrent 組織 months later 骨壞 with disease, 發癌 the other 的 died 14 治療 later without 引起 of disease. 可以 to our 而 We know, 之 cancer patients 中子 tolerate neutron 特徵 well and 復 good response 對 it, but 改善 her studies 來 the Neutron 中子 for malignant 的 in dosimetry 著者 radiobiological response 發性 necessary.
褪 an over 松果 anti aging 荷爾蒙 used widely 於 the world 改善 improving sleep 抗老化 has now 媒體 great potential 尚無法 fighting against 但 Many laboratory 間接 clinical evidences 顯示 its oncostatic 具有 anti-oxidization effect 荷爾蒙 immune enhancement 很強 Cancer patients 免疫 altered rhythm 預 melatonin secretion 發生 compared with 發現 people. Clinical 都 provide evidences 激素 improving quality 的 life, increase 褪 free survival 可觀察到 and overall 精神 rates by 改善 with melatonin 二號合 pharmacological dose. 相輔 can reduce 之外 toxicity from 治療 and immunotherapy. 做 has synergistic 機轉 when combines 是 Interlukin-2 or 褪 Melatonin may 癌病 a newly 的 anti-cancer hormonl 坊 anti-cancer therapy. 而 should not 價值 overlooked.
Melatonin, 褪 over exaggerated 松果 aging hormone 荷爾蒙 widely around 於 world for 改善 sleep quality, 抗老化 now shown 媒體 potential in 尚無法 against cancers. 但 laboratory and 間接 evidences support 顯示 oncostatic action, 具有 effect and 荷爾蒙 enhancement ability. 很強 patients have 免疫 rhythm of 預 secretion as 發生 with healthy 發現 Clinical trials 都 evidences of 激素 quality of 的 increase disease 褪 survival rates 可觀察到 overall survival 精神 by supplement 改善 melatonin in 二號合 dose. Melatonin 相輔 reduce the 之外 from chemotherapy 治療 immunotherapy. It 做 synergistic effect 機轉 combines with 是 or tamoxifen. 褪 may be 癌病 newly proposed 的 hormonl for 坊 therapy. It 而 not be 價值
子宮 the past 體腔 decade, there 治療 a significant 技術 in clinical 在 to the 的 (HDR) intracavitary 顯著 for treatment 轉變 cervical carcinoma. 率 data from ) meta-analysis and 逐漸 few available 取代 studies have 近 that results 低劑 HDR were 率 with, or 技術 superior to, 的 of the 的 low-dose-rate (LDR) 與 The improvement 比 treatment results, 好 with a 的 reduction of 嚴重 rectal complication 發症 (Grade 3 明顯 4), has 這 attributed mainly 歸 the improved 於 characteristics of 改進 facility and 電子 use of 的 fractionated treatment. 以及 randominzed comparison 分次 HDR vs. 與 optimal dose-fractionation 比 and prediction/prevention 最適 rectal complication 直腸 the three 發症 issues of 是 in the 的
Over 子宮 past one 體腔 there was 治療 significant reverse 技術 clinical attitude 在 the high-dose-rate 的 intracavitary brachytherapy 顯著 treatment of 轉變 carcinoma. Cumulative 率 from both ) and a 逐漸 available randomized 取代 have shown 近 results of 低劑 were comparable 率 or slightly 技術 to, that 的 the existing 的 (LDR) results. 與 improvement of 比 results, parallel 好 a significant 的 of severe 嚴重 complication rate 發症 3 and 明顯 has been 這 mainly to 歸 improved physical/mechanical 於 of HDR 改進 and the 電子 of appropriately 的 treatment. Prospective 以及 comparison of 分次 vs. LDR, 與 dose-fractionation study, 比 prediction/prevention of 最適 complication are 直腸 three central 發症 of HDR 是 the future.
目的 To evaluate 各項 variety of 關頭 and treatment-related 淋巴 that influence 非 prognosis of 氏 non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 之 the head 材料 neck.
Materials and 方法 From June 年 to April 至 22 patients 月 extranodal non-Hodgkin's 位 of the 結外 and neck 何杰金 had received 淋巴癌 at Taichung 病患 General Hospital. 本科 were 16 放射 and 6 治療 between 14 男性 79 years 女性 age. The 年齡介 period ranged 至 6 to 之間 months. All 間 were treated 至 Co-60 teletherapy 月 6 MV 之機器 10 MV 鈷 accelerator. The 遠隔 dose ranged 或 2998 to 伏特 cGy (mean: 直線 cGy). Prognostic 放射 such as 總劑 Ann Arbor 為 pathologic grading, 回溯 of involved 其 Waldeyer's ring 記錄 age, sex, 病 of radiation 研究 radiation dose, 預後因數 LDH level 本文 analyzed by 相關 review of 預後因數 medical records.
Results: 腫瘤 most common 分期 radiation reactions ) at mucous 預後之 and salivary 因素 The overall 之 disease-specific survival 存活率 was 57%. ％ failures included 失敗 relapse (8 有 relapse in 病患 site (3 遠端 and regional 發 (1 patient). 病患 major cause 原發 death was 復 relapse. The 一名 Arbor stage 在 the only 之 prognostic factor 結 this study. 發 5-year disease-specific 死因 was excellent 遠端 stage I 發 (88%) and 分期 survival rates 之 stage II, 存活期 and IV 到 53%, 0%, 四期 0%, respectively.
Conclusion: 五年 lymphoma arising 則分別 extranodal sites ％ the head 治療 neck area 急性 uncommon. The 以 significant prognostic 及 was extent 為主 the disease 早期 Arbor stage). 淋巴 management of 非 with early 淋巴癌 non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 治療 the head 放射 neck area 治療 controversial. However, 獲得 survival for 不錯 I non-Hodgkin's 結果 in the 其他 and neck 之 from extranodal 則 was achievable 未來 radiation therapy 多 this study.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate a 各項 of disease- 關頭 treatment-related variables 淋巴 influence the 非 of extranodal 氏 lymphoma of 之 head and 材料 and Methods: 方法 June 1984 年 April 1992, 至 patients with 月 non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 位 the hoad 結外 neck area 何杰金 received radiotherapy 淋巴癌 Taichung Veterans 病患 Hospital. There 本科 16 males 放射 6 females 治療 14 and 男性 years of 女性 The follow-up 年齡介 ranged from 至 to 133 之間 All patients 間 treated with 至 teletherapy machine, 月 MV or 之機器 MV linear 鈷 The radiation 遠隔 ranged from 或 to 7001 伏特 (mean: 4609 直線 Prognostic factors 放射 as the 總劑 Arbor stage, 為 grading, number 回溯 involved sites, 其 ring involvement, 記錄 sex, extent 病 radiation field, 研究 dose, and 預後因數 level were 本文 by retrospective 相關 of the 預後因數 records.
Results: The 腫瘤 common acute 分期 reactions occurred ) mucous membrane 預後之 salivary gland. 因素 overall 5-year 之 survival rate 存活率 57%. Treatment ％ included distant 失敗 (8 patients), 有 in primary 病患 (3 patients) 遠端 regional LN 發 patient). The 病患 cause of 原發 was distant 復 The Ann 一名 stage was 在 only significant 之 factor in 結 study. The 發 disease-specific survival 死因 excellent for 遠端 I disease 發 and the 分期 rates for 之 II, Ill, 存活期 IV were 到 0%, and 四期 respectively.
Conclusion: Non-Hodgkin's 五年 arising from 則分別 sites in ％ head and 治療 area was 急性 The most 以 prognostic factor 及 extent of 為主 disease (Ann 早期 stage). Proper 淋巴 of patients 非 early stage 淋巴癌 lymphoma of 治療 head and 放射 area remains 治療 However, excellent 獲得 for stage 不錯 non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 結果 the head 其他 neck arising 之 extranodal sites 則 achievable by 未來 therapy in 多 study.
目的 To evaluate 去 therapeutic results ( nasopharyngeal malignant 在 treated at 大 over the 惡性 fifteen years 淋巴瘤 & Methods: 治療 patients with 材料 lymphoma of 方法 visited our 十五年 in the 大 fifteen years 共有 their data 鼻咽 analyzed. The 之 of the 年齡分 ranged from 自 to 81 歲 old. There 女性 20 male 各 and 20 第一 patients. Stage 各有 and LI 病例 were 18 組織 22, respectively. 學 to histopathologic 低 patients with 高級 grade, intermediate 及 and high 位 malignant lymphoma 只 10, 26 放射 4, respectively. 位病息 patients received 接受 radiotherapy and 位 patients received 接受 The remaining 及化 patients were 併 by combined 位 and irradiation. 未 patients did 任何 receive any 結果 The actuarial 二期 survival rates 存活率 nasopharyngeal malignant ％ patients with ％ I, II 分類 65.7% and 結節性 respectively. When 瀰 by the 五年 classification, the 分別 five-year survival 及 for patients 分類 nodular type 低 diffuse type 高級 72.7% and 分別 respectively. The ％ five-year survival 放射 for patients 化學 Low grade, 及合 grade and 療法 grade nasopharyngeal 五年 lymphoma were 分別 39.0%, and 及 respectively. The 淋巴瘤 five- year 於 rates for 淋巴瘤 treated with 放射 chemotherapy and 加以控制 treatment modalities 組織 100.0%, 58.7%, 學分類 30.0%, respectively.
Conclusion: 低級 clinically localized 結節性 nasopharynx can 惡性 cured by 淋巴瘤 When classified 獨 histopathology, patients 放射 low grade 中級 nodular type 瀰 be successfully 之 using local 鼻咽 alone. Chemotherapy 使用 as primary 治療 (with or 併 adjuvant radiotherapy) 對 be benefit 之 intermediate grade 則 diffuse type patients.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 去 results of ( malignant lymphoma 在 at NTUH 大 the past 惡性 years (1979-1993).
Materials 淋巴瘤 Methods: Forty 治療 with malignant 材料 of nasopharynx 方法 our hospital 十五年 the past 大 years and 共有 data were 鼻咽 The age 之 the patients 年齡分 from 13 自 81 years 歲 There were 女性 male patients 各 20 female 第一 Stage I 各有 LI patients 病例 18 and 組織 respectively. According 學 histopathologic classification, 低 with low 高級 intermediate grade 及 high grade 位 lymphoma were 只 26 and 放射 respectively. Seven 位病息 received radical 接受 and 15 位 received chemotherapy. 接受 remaining 10 及化 were treated 併 combined chemotherapy 位 irradiation. Eight 未 did not 任何 any treatment.
Results: 結果 actuarial five-year 二期 rates for 存活率 malignant lymphoma ％ with Stage ％ II were 分類 and 27.3%, 結節性 When classified 瀰 the Rappaport 五年 the actuarial 分別 survival rates 及 patients of 分類 type and 低 type were 高級 and 33.5%, 分別 The actuarial ％ survival rates 放射 patients of 化學 grade, intermediate 及合 and high 療法 nasopharyngeal malignant 五年 were 80.0%, 分別 and 50.0%, 及 The actuarial 淋巴瘤 year survival 於 for patients 淋巴瘤 with radiotherapy, 放射 and combined 加以控制 modalities were 組織 58.7%, and 學分類 respectively.
Conclusion: Lymphoma 低級 localized to 結節性 can be 惡性 by radiotherapy. 淋巴瘤 classified by 獨 patients with 放射 grade or 中級 type can 瀰 successfully treated 之 local radiotherapy 鼻咽 Chemotherapy used 使用 primary treatment 治療 or without 併 radiotherapy) may 對 benefit for 之 grade or 則 type patients.
目的 Nasopharyngeal carcinoma 好發 is a 的 and chemosensitive 治療 We evaluate 治療 feasibility, response 約 toxicities of 治療 chemoradiotherapy for 併 NPC.
Materials and 對 A total 化學 80 patients 敏感 advanced NPC 同步 belong to 對 stage IV) 之 treated by 副作用 chemoradiotherapy. Radiotherapy 研究 delivered using 晚期 telecobalt unit ( 10 MV 第四期 and by 傳統式 fractionation (1.8-2.0 方式 5 fractions 一次 week) for 五次 patients and 我們 hyperfractionated accelerated 部份 (1.5 Gy 治療 x 1 六週 1.8 Gy 各照 x 3 四週 + 1.5 每次 B. I. ／ x 2 假日 for 61 則 Chemotherapy with 將劑 and 5-FU 其他 given concurrently 於 the first 同步化 fifth weeks 和 radiotherapy.
Results: The 第一 toxicities were 給予 leucopenia, weight 例中 and skin ) The 2nd 例腫瘤 concurrent chemotherapy 腫瘤 be delayed 病人 one week 是 5 patinets. 黏膜 patients refused 達 2nd cycle 減輕 and another 例 patients received 毒性 dose of 有 cycle chemotherapy. 只 patients interrupted 例 for more 放射 one week 反應 to toxicities. 以上者 patient refused 例只 radiotherapy after 就 Gy. Complete 迄今 was noted 已 77 cases 中值 and partial 間 4%, with 例已 overall response 存活 of 100%. 例因 a median 例死 time of 總計 years (39-66 有 the nasopharynx 部 neck disease- 鼻咽 and distant 復 disease-free survivals 生頸部 87.5%, 9 併 and 76.2% 例 The 4-year 四年 survival and 呢 survival are 轉移 and 66.3%. 存活率 who failed 存活率 due to 同步化 metastases.
Conclusion: Our 對 indicated that 可行 chemoradiotherapy for 的 NPC is 轉移 feasible and 的 with acceptable 後 Post-radiation adjuvant 性化學 to eradicate 遠處 micrometastasis should 存活率 further studied.
Purpose: 目的 carcinoma (NPC) 好發 a radio- 的 chemosensitive tumor. 治療 evaluate the 治療 response and 約 of concurrent 治療 for advanced 併 and Methods: 對 total of 化學 patients with 敏感 NPC (95% 同步 to AJCC 對 IV) were 之 by concurrent 副作用 Radiotherapy was 研究 using a 晚期 unit and ( MV X-rays 第四期 by conventional 傳統式 (1.8-2.0 Gy/fraction, 方式 fractions a 一次 for 19 五次 and partially 我們 accelerated schedule 部份 Gy B.I.D. 治療 1 week+ 六週 Gy Q.D. 各照 3 weeks 四週 1.5 Gy 每次 I. D. ／ 2 weeks) 假日 61 patients. 則 with cisplatin 將劑 5-FU were 其他 concurrently during 於 first and 同步化 weeks of 和 The major 第一 were mucositis, 給予 weight loss, 例中 skin reaction. ) 2nd cycle 例腫瘤 chemotherapy should 腫瘤 delayed for 病人 week in 是 patinets. Two 黏膜 refused the 達 cycle chemotherapy 減輕 another 2 例 received incomplete 毒性 of 2nd 有 chemotherapy. Seven 只 interrupted radiotherapy 例 more than 放射 week doe 反應 toxicities. One 以上者 refused further 例只 after 55.5 就 Complete response 迄今 noted in 已 cases (96%) 中值 partial response 間 with an 例已 response rate 存活 100%. After 例因 median follow-up 例死 of 4 總計 (39-66 months), 有 nasopharynx disease-free, 部 disease- free, 鼻咽 distant metastasis 復 survivals are 生頸部 9 1.8%, 併 76.2% irrespectively. 例 4-year over-alt 四年 and disease-free 呢 are 71.9% 轉移 66.3%. Patients 存活率 failed were 存活率 to distant 同步化 Our data 對 that concurrent 可行 for advanced 的 is both 轉移 and effective, 的 acceptable toxicities. 後 adjuvant chemotherapy 性化學 eradicate subclinical 遠處 should be 存活率 studied.
目的 To assess 線 relationship between 病毒 pre-RJT EBV 和 titers and 臨床 characteristics of 並 patients with 指數 and to 預後的關 the prognostic 及 of the 年 and Methods: 年 April 1991 位 September 1995, 治療 patients with 內 carcinoma who 病毒 the examination 測試 EBV VGA 抗體 before radiotherapy 指數 reviewed. We 陽性 the correlation 性別 titers and 形態 characteristics, including 分期 age, WHO 關 types and 分析 We also 鼻咽癌 to find 因子 role of 抗體值 titers in 係 prognosis.
Results: We 患者 that the 的 mean titers 指數 EBV VCA-IgA 及 IgG of 陽性 101 patients 為 102 and 幾何 and the 在 rates were 較 and 91.7%, ) The GMTs 率則 IgA and 長 trended to 期別 increased in 患者 stages, but 偏高 significant difference 而 statistics. There 這些 no significant 無 of GMT5 係 other clinical 別及 except IgA 有關 in sex. 與 seropositive rates 抗體 higher in 與 higher T 雖然 and advanced 的 The role 平均 predicting prognosis 隨期 not found.
Conclusions: 而 pre-treatment EBV 趨勢 GMTs increased 差異 advanced stages, 陽性 the difference 年齡 not significant 分期 they were 此外 proper factors 不可 predicting prognosis.
-Purpose: 目的 assess the 線 between the 病毒 EBV VCA 和 and the 臨床 of the 並 with NPC 指數 to analyze 預後的關 prognostic value 及 the titers
Materials 年 Methods: From 年 1991 to 位 1995, 101 治療 with nasopharyngeal 內 who received 病毒 examination of 測試 VGA titers 抗體 radiotherapy were 指數 We analyzed 陽性 correlation between 性別 and clinical 形態 including genders, 分期 WHO histologic 關 and stages. 分析 also tried 鼻咽癌 find the 因子 of these 抗體值 in predicting 係 We found 患者 the geometric 的 titers of 指數 VCA-IgA and 及 of these 陽性 patients were 為 and 1136 幾何 the seropositive 在 were 87% 較 91.7%, respectively. ) GMTs of 率則 and IgG 長 to be 期別 in advanced 患者 but no 偏高 difference in 而 There is 這些 significant difference 無 GMT5 in 係 clinical features, 別及 IgA titer 有關 sex. The 與 rates were 抗體 in elders, 與 T stage 雖然 advanced stage. 的 role in 平均 prognosis was 隨期 found.
Conclusions: The 而 EBV VGA 趨勢 increased in 差異 stages, but 陽性 difference was 年齡 significant and 分期 were not 此外 factors in 不可 prognosis.
: To evaluate : treatment results : analyze the . factors of . radiotherapy for : parotid gland : and Methods: . January 1984 . December 1993, . patients with . parotid gland . received a ( course of ( at Taichung : General Hospital. : of the : patients were ) with postoperative ) There were . males and . females, between . and 78 . old (median: . The numbers ; the patients ; stage I ; IV were ; 6, 3, ; 11, respectively. ; types of ; included mucoepidermoid ; adenocarcinoma,6; epidermoid ; adenoid cystic ; malignant mixed ; adenosquamous cell ; undifferentiated caroinoma,2; ; cell carcinoma,1; ; lymphoepithelioma-like carcinoma, ; Most patients ; treated with ; using unilateral ; pair fields . an electron . local boost. . dose of . was 57 . 72 Gy ( 60 Gy).
Results: ( patients were : up till : 1997. The ) and 10-year ) survival rates ) 78% and . respectively. The . local control : was 89%. : patients developed . recurrences at . months, 6 . developed distant . at 3-69 . and 2 . combined local . and distant . Most failure . in the . year after . Five-year survival . for stage . IV were . 83%, 100%, ( 55%, respectively. ( node involvement, ＜ and histology ＜ the significant ＜ factors (P＜0.05).
Conclusions: ) radiotherapy was ) in eradicating . residual tumors . yielded a : local control : Lymph node : stage, and . were the . prognostic factors. . node involvement, . IV tumors, . adenocarcinoma indicated . relatively poor prognosis.
Purpose: : evaluate the : results and : the prognostic . of postoperative . for malignant : gland tumors.
Materials : Methods: From . 1984 to . 1993, 42 . with malignant . gland tumors . a complete ( of radiotherapy ( Taichung Veterans : Hospital. Twenty-eight : the 42 : were treated ) postoperative radiotherapy. ) were 12 . and 16 . between 15 . 78 years . (median: 46). . numbers of ; patients in ; I to ; were 8, ; 3, and ; respectively. The ; of cancer ; mucoepidermoid carcinoma,8; ; epidermoid caroinoma,3; ; cystic carcinoma,3; ; mixed tumor,2; ; cell caroinoma,2; ; caroinoma,2; acinic ; carcinoma,1; and ; carcinoma, 1. ; patients were ; with Go-60 ; unilateral wedge ; fields and . electron beam . boost. The . of radiotherapy . 57 to . Gy (median: ( Gy).
Results: The ( were followed : till January : The 5-year ) 10-year overall ) rates were ) and 65%, . The 5-year . control rate : 89%. Three : developed local . at 3-12 . 6 patients . distant metastases . 3-69 months, . 2 had . local recurrences . distant metastases. . failure occurred . the first . after surgery. . survival rates . stage Ito . were 100%, . 100%, and ( respectively. Lymph ( involvement, stage, ＜ histology were ＜ significant prognostic ＜ (P＜0.05).
Conclusions: Postoperative ) was effective ) eradicating microscopic . tumors and . a good : control rate. : node involvement, : and histology . the significant . factors. Lymph . involvement, stage . tumors, and . indicated a . poor prognosis.
目的 To investigate 探討 late endocrine 其內 in patients 在 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 治療 following radiotherapy 的 & Methods: 材料 endocrine function 本 5 NPC 一 (3 male 測量 2 female) 病人 with RT 男性 was analyzed 女性 this study. 於 doses to 放療 hypothalamus, pituitary, 放療 thyroid were 的 Gy, 50.9-70.2 功能 and 46.8 腦 respectively. Growth 甲狀腺 (GH), cortisol 的 to insulin 各為 test (In), 功能 hormone (TSH) 生長 to TRH 腺皮 gonadotropin response 胰島素 LHRH were 測驗 before, at 性腺 years and 等 10 years 及 RT. The 睪 levels of 激素 estradiol or 之後基礎 total triiodothyronine, 在 thyroxine were 後 measured at 分泌 time points.
Results: 中 pre-treatment endocrine 生長 was normal 有 all patients. 位 of them 較 GH deficiency 的 2 patients 及 clinical symptoms 低甲 hypothyroidism had 而 basal level 中 TSH at 較 years after 甲 TSH responses 的 TRH were 一位 in 3 甲 and delayed 的 1 patient. 有 female patient 在 amenorrhea and 發生 decreased cortisol 經症 to ITT. 有 hyperprolactinemia was 上皮 in these 結論 Endocrine dysfunction 功能 a common 經過 in NPC 後 following RT. 病人 hypothalamic-pituitary region 當常見 thyroid gland 治療 be shielded 傷害 much as 腦 if the 甲狀腺 of cure 檢測 not compromised. 功能 endocrine assessment 激素 replacement of 病人 hormone might 的 indicated in 時 patients following 的
Purpose: 目的 investigate the 探討 endocrine dysfunction 其內 patients with 在 carcinoma (NPC) 治療 radiotherapy (RT).
Materials 的 Methods: The 材料 function in 本 NPC patients 一 male and 測量 female) treated 病人 RT alone 男性 analyzed in 女性 study. Estimated 於 to the 放療 pituitary, and 放療 were 49.4-66.6 的 50.9-70.2 Gy 功能 46.8 Gy, 腦 Growth hormone 甲狀腺 cortisol response 的 insulin tolerance 各為 (In), thyroid-stimulating 功能 (TSH) response 生長 TRH and 腺皮 response to 胰島素 were measured 測驗 at 1.5 性腺 and at 等 years after 及 The basal 睪 of prolactin, 激素 or testosterone, 之後基礎 triiodothyronine, and 在 were also 後 at these 分泌 points.
Results: The 中 endocrine function 生長 normal in 有 patients. All 位 them developed 較 deficiency and 的 patients with 及 symptoms of 低甲 had increased 而 level of 中 at 10 較 after RT. 甲 responses to 的 were increased 一位 3 patients 甲 delayed in 的 patient. One 有 patient developed 在 and had 發生 cortisol response 經症 ITT. No 有 was observed 上皮 these patients.
Conclusion: 結論 dysfunction is 功能 common complication 經過 NPC patients 後 RT. The 病人 region and 當常見 gland should 治療 shielded as 傷害 as possible 腦 the possibility 甲狀腺 cure is 檢測 compromised. Regular 功能 assessment and 激素 of deficient 病人 might be 的 in NPC 時 following RT.
前言 irradiation to 的 lymph node 腫瘤 a very 有 role to 結的 advanced stage 腹股 tumor for 的 had high 處理 of inguinal 會 node metastasis. 腫瘤 needs great 非常 to irradiate 角色 ingoinal area. 治療 irradiate with 淋巴 depth will 輻射劑 poor control 深度 but too 會 will lead 手術 of femoral 的 or neck 副作用 We evaluate 但 depth of 以致 lymph nodes 股溝 propose the 太高時 better irradiation 有 and Methods: 股關節 reviewed the 危險 films of 拿捏 gynecological cancer ( who received 用 to find 治療 possible depth 結 inguinal nodes 課題 the depth 了 four femoral 腹股 We also 深度 the irradiation 並探 distribotion by 較 different energy 治療 photon beam, 及 beam and 隨機 combination of 在 and electron 腫瘤 The most 放射 depth of 的 lymph node 檢視 from 1 血管 to 6.5 來 the median 淋巴 3.75 and 可能 mean was 另外 cm. The 電腦 deep depth 計算 inguinal lymph 的 ranged from 電子 to 8.8 不 the median 之 5.65 cm 之 the mean 所得 4.46 cm. 分布 the photon 經過 to treat 女病人 inguinal will 淋巴 too much 的 dose to 至 head area. 是 energy electron 值 a good 公分 to treat 從 lesion with 平均 cm depth 中間 too much 公分 spot. To 公分 the depth 深度 5 cm, 或 the combination 不錯 6 MV 要 beam and 的 energy electron 時 can get 射線合 homogenous dose 射線 but also 公分 reduce more 便 20 % 了 dose to 能量 femoral head 使 It needs 的 treatment plan 不會 to the 腹股溝 depth to 的 the inguinal 需要 node area. 別 treat with 因 depth with 厚度 radiation modality 方式 only can 以期 good control 的 also to 同時 the complication 最小 much as possible.
Purpose: 前言 to inguinal 的 node had 腫瘤 very important 有 to treat 結的 stage perineal 腹股 for it 的 high incideoce 處理 inguinal lymph 會 metastasis. It 腫瘤 great caution 非常 irradiate the 角色 area. To 治療 with inadequate 淋巴 will cause 輻射劑 control rate 深度 too deep 會 lead risk 手術 femoral head 的 neck fracture. 副作用 evaluate the 但 of inguinal 以致 nodes and 股溝 the possible 太高時 irradiation method.
Material 有 Methods: We 股關節 the CT 危險 of sixty-five 拿捏 cancer patients ( received radiotherapy 用 find the 治療 depth of 結 nodes - 課題 depth of 了 femoral vessels. 腹股 also calculated 深度 irradiation dose 並探 by using 較 energy of 治療 beam, electron 及 and various 隨機 of photon 在 electron beams.
Results: 腫瘤 most superficial 放射 of inguinal 的 node ranged 檢視 1 cm 血管 6.5 cm; 來 median was 淋巴 and the 可能 was 2.49 另外 The most 電腦 depth of 計算 lymph node 的 from 2.5 電子 8.8 cm; 不 median was 之 cm and 之 mean was 所得 cm. Using 分布 photon beam 經過 treat the 女病人 will cause 淋巴 much radiation 的 to femoral 至 area. High 是 electron was 值 good choice 公分 treat the 從 with 3 平均 depth without 中間 much hot 公分 To treat 公分 depth of 深度 cm, using 或 combination of 不錯 MV photon 要 and high 的 electron beam 時 get much 射線合 dose distribution 射線 also can 公分 more than 便 % of 了 to the 能量 head area.
Conclusion: 使 needs individual 的 plan according 不會 the different 腹股溝 to irradiate 的 inguinal lymph 需要 area. To 別 with appropriate 因 with proper 厚度 modality not 方式 can get 以期 control but 的 to reduce 同時 complication as 最小 as possible.
目的 Leipzig applicators ^ one kind 率後荷 accessories of 機 (superscript 192)1r 依 Rate remote 之 system. According 為 the orientation 及 the source 型式 in the 大小 it can 為 divided into 三公 kinds: horizontal 管 vertical ones. 此型 are three 管 of diameter 劑量 each type 特性 applicator: 1, 測五種 and 3 為 Five characteristics 結構 the applicator 百分 be measured 劑量 clinical application. 分 are geometric 曲線 relative output, 矢狀面 depth dose, 洩漏 curve distributions 與 real sagittal 精密度 radiation leakage 尺量 and Methods: 管 accuracy calipers 幾何 used to 出則 the geometric . of the 型 The relative : were measured 連接 N.E. 0.03 增建 parallel-plate ionization 予以 connected to 一到 Dosemaster 2590 全假體 RMI solid 距離 with 3 得 build-up layer 百分 outputs were 劑量 to the 劑量 in full 曲線則 that was 水假體 at the 電子 source-to-chamber distance. 半導體 percentage depth 水中 and isodose 而 distributions were 漏量 with Scanditronix 測量則 water phantom 依裝療 to p-type 外形 beam semiconductor 將 The measurement 於 performed in 管矢 along the 各置 Mylar window. 增建 real sagittal 矢狀面 radiation leakage 輻射洩 the applicator 水平式 measured with 增加 V film 直立式 was cut 降低 to the 有效 of the 表面 The relative 水平式 of the 直立式 type were 直立式 10%, while 之 vertical ones 分 decreased 9%. 曲線 effective source-to-surface 凹陷 of the 水平式 type is 之 to 1.93 漏量 and 1.74 劑量點 for the ％ ones. The 裝療 curves are 頂部 in the 直立式 axis of 漏量 type applicators 最高 to the 位 from catheter 裝療 source tip. 側部 hot spots 由 the horizontal 小 applicators are 一些 at the 皮膚癌 of the 他 and at 之 sides for 測量 vertical ones. 結果 leakage is 深度 for the 可用 types and 至 for the 予以 types.
Conclusion: Leipzig 估算 can be 劑量 to treat 直立式 small volume 裝療 such as 的 cancer, oral 達 and for 劑量 dose boost 注意 The dose 的 be estimated 提供 BSSD to 裝療 20% depth 的 The hot 及 of the 所在位置 allow the 應用 to avoid 參考 exposure.
Purpose: 目的 applicators are ^ kind of 率後荷 of Nucletron 機 192)1r High-Dose 依 remote afterloading 之 According to 為 orientation of 及 source axis 型式 the applicator, 大小 can be 為 into two 三公 horizontal and 管 ones. There 此型 three kinds 管 diameter for 劑量 type of 特性 1, 2 測五種 3 cm. 為 characteristics of 結構 applicator will 百分 measured for 劑量 application. They 分 geometric structure, 曲線 output, percent 矢狀面 dose, isodose 洩漏 distributions and 與 sagittal plane 精密度 leakage test.
Materials 尺量 Methods: High 管 calipers was 幾何 to measure 出則 geometric structure . the applicator 型 relative outputs : measured with 連接 0.03 cc. 增建 ionization chamber 予以 to Ionex 一到 2590 in 全假體 solid phantom 距離 3 mm 得 layer The 百分 were normalized 劑量 the dose 劑量 full phantom 曲線則 was measured 水假體 the same 電子 distance. The 半導體 depth dose 水中 isodose curve 而 were measured 漏量 Scanditronix RFA300 測量則 phantom connected 依裝療 p-type electron 外形 semiconductor chamber 將 measurement was 於 in water 管矢 the side 各置 window. The 增建 sagittal plane 矢狀面 leakage of 輻射洩 applicator was 水平式 with Kodak 增加 film that 直立式 cut according 降低 the shape 有效 the applicator.
Results: 表面 relative outputs 水平式 the horizontal 直立式 were increased 直立式 while the 之 ones were 分 9%. The 曲線 source-to-surface distance 凹陷 the horizontal 水平式 is equal 之 1.93 cm 漏量 1.74 cm 劑量點 the vertical ％ The isodose 裝療 are attenuated 頂部 the central 直立式 of vertical 漏量 applicators due 最高 the attenuation 位 catheter and 裝療 tip. The 側部 spots of 由 horizontal type 小 are located 一些 the top 皮膚癌 the applicator 他 at the 之 for the 測量 ones. The 結果 is 30% 深度 the horizontal 可用 and 20% 至 the vertical 予以 Leipzig applicators 估算 be used 劑量 treat some 直立式 volume cancer 裝療 as skin 的 oral cancer 達 for other 劑量 boost treatment. 注意 dose can 的 estimated with 提供 to approximately 裝療 depth accurately. 的 hot spots 及 the applicators 所在位置 the user 應用 avoid unnecessary 參考
目的 To study 亞鐵劑 the ferrous 並 agarose gel 鬆 the dose 吸收 and distribution 的關 the mediums. 其 potential applications 組織 clinical radiation 反應 are also 佈 and Method: 對 sulphate agarose 臨床 containing ferrous 上 sulfate, sodium 做 sulfuric acid 較 triple distilled 方法 was employed 亞鐵 measure dose 洋菜 in the 並待 The change 置入 T1 of 最後經 spin-lattice relaxation 造影 of ferric 弛 with an 而 scanner was 弛 as a 吸收 of absorbed 係 given to 製 gels. Breast-mimic 假體 phantom and 組織 layer phantom 空腔 constructed to 分析 the 3D 佈 distributions in 也 gel phantoms 計劃 treatment planning 較 distributions in 硫酸 phantoms.
Result: The 膠體 response of 弛 gel is 劑 up to 在 Gy. The 時 of homogeneity 係 the magnetic 於 chemical diffusion 膠體 degradation of 擴散 gel are 等 major factors 其信號 the signal 仍 noise ratio 滿意 the gel 量計 The gel 空間 he applicable 佈 3D dose 有用 in the 與 of bone 之劑 air interface, 組微 and chest 勻 However, the 量分析 strength and 其臨 of the 價值 images are 提 not clinically 信號 Further studies 比 improve the 更進 insufficiencies are needed.
Purpose: 目的 study how 亞鐵劑 ferrous sulphate 並 gel reports 鬆 dose response 吸收 distribution to 的關 mediums. The 其 applications to 組織 radiation therapy 反應 also introduced.
Material 佈 Method: Ferrous 對 agarose gel 臨床 ferrous ammonium 上 sodium chloride, 做 acid and 較 distilled water 方法 employed to 亞鐵 dose distribution 洋菜 the mediums. 並待 change for 置入 of the 最後經 relaxation rates 造影 ferric ions 弛 an MRI 而 was studied 弛 a function 吸收 absorbed dose 係 to the 製 Breast-mimic gel 假體 and inhomogeneous 組織 phantom were 空腔 to compare 分析 3D dose 佈 in the 也 phantoms with 計劃 planning dose 較 in these 硫酸 The dose 膠體 of the 弛 is linear 劑 to 30 在 The degree 時 homogeneity of 係 magnetic field, 於 diffusion and 膠體 of the 擴散 are the 等 factors affecting 其信號 signal to 仍 ratio of 滿意 gel imaging.
Conclusion: 量計 gel may 空間 applicable to 佈 dose verification 有用 the areas 與 bone and 之劑 interface, breast 組微 chest wall. 勻 the signal 量分析 and resolution 其臨 the gel 價值 are still 提 clinically satisfactory. 信號 studies to 比 the above 更進 are needed.
目的 To test 組 performance of 式 microwave antenna 於 hyperthermia system 分 a phantom 以評 with or 材料 flow effect
Material 研究 Method: The 新 device was 天線 custom-made interstitial 狹縫 antenna array 為 system. Six 並 antennas which 所 implanted on 陣列 corners of 陣列 hexagon with 內作區 spacing of 的 mm were 第一部 in this 考慮 A phantom 於 flow was 所產生 namely, one 利用 tube inserted 植 a homogenons 系統 phantom. The 均質 data from 為 fibrooptic thermometers 假體 fed to 的 personal computer 情形 could record 時間 analyze the 溫度 also could 達 the output 開始 of microwave 距離 To test 挿 system performance, 測多個 devided the 溫度 into two 第二部 In the 相同 stage, the 配合 distribution in 模擬 phantom without 假體 was conducted. 與 the second 的 the experiments 水管 a phantom 的 different flow 水溫 (25, 50, 過以 100 and 狀態 ml/min) were 水流 The flow 討論 of water 佈 silicone tubes 份 controlled by 此 microtube pump.
Result: 熱時 the automatic 上 and power 分 in this 最高 microwave antenna 於 hyperthermia system, 狹縫 temperature distribution 天線 phantom can 有效 maintained uniformly ℃ the range 則顯示 43-45 DC. 的 first-stage study 之 that there 於 a tendency 狀態 the temperature 對 concentrated around 加熱時 antennas. For 吸收 flow effect 隨著 thermal distribution, 增大 results demonstrated 現逐漸 the faster 但是 rate would 到 more energy 時 in the 於 period. However, 一 rate of 假體 loss caused 不再 flowing water 的 constant when 結論 flow rate 軟體 faster than 下 An interstitial 考慮 antenna array 實驗 system for 此 heating was 進行 The superior 陣列 of this 區域 in maintaining 佈 temperature distribution 而此 the heating 於 was also 推展 demonstrated.
Purpose: 目的 test the 組 of interstitial 式 antenna array 於 system using 分 phantom model 以評 or without 材料 effect
Material and 研究 The heating 新 was a 天線 interstitial microwave 狹縫 array hyperthermia 為 Six 2450-MHz 並 which were 所 on the 陣列 of a 陣列 with intercather 內作區 of 15 的 were used 第一部 this system. 考慮 phantom with 於 was designed, 所產生 one silicone 利用 inserted into 植 homogenons muscle 系統 The temperature 均質 from four 為 thermometers were 假體 to the 的 computer which 情形 record and 時間 the data, 溫度 could control 達 output power 開始 microwave source. 距離 test the 挿 performance, we 測多個 the study 溫度 two stages. 第二部 the first 相同 the thermal 配合 in a 模擬 without flow 假體 conducted. In 與 second stage, 的 experiments in 水管 phantom with 的 flow rates 水溫 50, 75, 過以 and 125 狀態 were designed. 水流 flow rates 討論 water through 佈 tubes were 份 by a 此 pump.
Result: Using 熱時 automatic temperature 上 power control 分 this interstitial 最高 antenna array 於 system, the 狹縫 distribution in 天線 can be 有效 uniformly in ℃ range of 則顯示 DC. The 的 study showed 之 there was 於 tendency that 狀態 temperature was 對 around the 加熱時 For the 吸收 effect on 隨著 distribution, the 增大 demonstrated that 現逐漸 faster flow 但是 would take 到 energy away 時 the transient 於 However, the 一 of energy 假體 caused by 不再 water became 的 when the 結論 rate was 軟體 than l00ml/min.
Conclusions: 下 interstitial microwave 考慮 array hyperthermia 實驗 for deep-seated 此 was developed. 進行 superior ability 陣列 this system 區域 maintaining uniform 佈 distribution around 而此 heating area 於 also clearly 推展
目的 To evaluate 第四期 results and 治療 factors of 其預 IV nasopharyngeal 材料 and Materials: 從 April 11191 月 June 1995, 月間 patients with 共有 N2-3M0 nasopharyngeal 的 treated at 所有 Veteran General 都 were evaluated. 了 these patients 放射 received definitive 其中 to a 為 dose of 為 cGy (range 本 6800 to 除計算 cGy). The 之 patterns according 亦 different T 期別 N stages 型態 evaluated. The 關系 prognostic factors 預後的 analysed by 先以 analysis first, 方法 those have 義的 p values 因子 further eveluated 以 multivariate analysis.
Results: 方法 survival rate, 五年 failure free 控制 and disease-free 疾病 at 5 分別 were 43.7%, 及 and 40.3%, 方法 The factors 研究 T stage, 腫瘤 of T4 總 total treatment 時間 lymph node 反應 rate, T 性別 N grouping, 等 and platelet 有意 all showed 因子 significance by 異數 analysis. The 則 analysis revealed 侵犯 the characteristics 存活率 T4 invasion 帶 T/N grouping 局部 significant to 存活率 overall survival 研究 local failure 鼻咽癌 survival, respectively.
Conclusion: 治療 study disclosed 隨 the patients 預後 Stage IV 有所 cancer have 決定 prognosis according 的 different factors. 時 the future, 慮 might design 不同 policies according 後 different prognostic 規劃 in an 不同 to improve 方式 treatment results.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 第四期 and prognostic 治療 of Stage 其預 nasopharyngeal cancer.
Methods 材料 Materials: From 從 11191 to 月 1995, 89 月間 with Tl-4 共有 nasopharyngeal cancer 的 at the 所有 General Hospital-Kaohsiung 都 evaluated. All 了 patients had 放射 definitive radiotherapy 其中 a median 為 of 7200 為 (range from 本 to 7670 除計算 The failure 之 according to 亦 T and 期別 stages were 型態 The possible 關系 factors were 預後的 by univariate 先以 first, then 方法 have significant 義的 values were 因子 eveluated by 以 analysis.
Results: The 方法 rate, local 五年 free survival 控制 disease-free survival 疾病 5 years 分別 43.7%, 44.6% 及 40.3%, respectively. 方法 factors including 研究 stage, characteristics 腫瘤 T4 invasion, 總 treatment time, 時間 node response 反應 T and 性別 grouping, sex 等 platelet counts 有意 showed statistically 因子 by univariate 異數 The multivariate 則 revealed both 侵犯 characteristics of 存活率 invasion and 帶 grouping are 局部 to the 存活率 survival and 研究 failure free 鼻咽癌 respectively.
Conclusion: This 治療 disclosed that 隨 patients with 預後 IV nasopharyngeal 有所 have different 決定 according to 的 factors. In 時 future, we 慮 design treatment 不同 according to 後 prognostic factors 規劃 an attempt 不同 improve the 方式 results.
目的 As the 綱際 of the ) and specifically 資訊網 WWW (World 的 Web) escalates, 與 information transfer 路上 network becomes 交流 mainstream of 現代通 The WWW 的 the most 而 expansion because 由 friendly user 親切 and its 使用 capacity. In 多 paper, we 內容 to evaluate 了 efficacy of 成長 WWW home 評估 of our 一年 and investigate 成效 feasibility of 醫學 consultation over 可行性 and Methods: 展望 home page 初步 department of 材料 oncology in 方法 Gung Memorial 雲年 was set 放射 one year 在 Our WWW 提供 page provides 放射 information about 資訊 of cancers 癌症 on-line medical 解答 We analyze 分析 number of 來 and the 客人 medical questions 線上 this year.
Results 常 Conclusion: The 問題 indicate that 結論 WWW home 的 of radiation 顯示 is an 的 way to 可以 the cancer 癌症病人 and the 一般 Also, the 的 of WWW 未來 page will 的 tremendous in the future.
Purpose: 目的 the importance 綱際 the Internet, ) specifically the 資訊網 (World Wide 的 escalates, the 與 transfer over 路上 becomes the 交流 of communication. 現代通 WWW shows 的 most striking 而 because its 由 user interface 親切 its multimedia 使用 In this 多 we intend 內容 evaluate the 了 of the 成長 home page 評估 our department 一年 investigate the 成效 of medical 醫學 over Internet.
Materials 可行性 Methods: The 展望 page of 初步 of radiation 材料 in Chang 方法 Memorial Hospital-Kaohsiuag 雲年 set up 放射 year ago. 在 WWW home 提供 provides comprehensive 放射 about radiotherapy 資訊 cancers and 癌症 medical consultation. 解答 analyze the 分析 of visitors 來 the on-line 客人 questions within 線上 year.
Results and 常 The results 問題 that the 結論 home page 的 radiation oncology 顯示 an effective 的 to serve 可以 cancer patients 癌症病人 the public. 一般 the potential 的 WWW home 未來 will be 的 in the future.
目的 To evaluation 早期 factors and 手術 outcome for 併 stage endometrial 的 patients treated 各種 surgery or 因子 surgery and 方法 therapy (RT)
Material 月 Methods: We 月間 a retrospective 馬 for 143 接受 with StageI/II 位 cancer treated 內膜癌 Mackay Memorial 做 between 1984 的 1996. Patients 再 restaged according 系統 the 1988 乳突 staging system. 和 with papillary 細胞癌 and clear 討論 histologies were 病患 Patients were 研究 as high 如果 group if 下列 had one 危險 more of 為 following factors: 否則 3 tumor 危險群 depth of 危險 invasion＞1/2, pathologic ① involvement, or 被 histology. Of 大 135 patients, ② patients was 第 with surgery ) (Group A) 頸 the other 腺鱗癌 patients were 位 with combined 中 and RT 病患 B). Eight 治療 patients in 病患 A and 為 (82%) patients 組有 group B 接受 defined high 放射 group. The 其中 treatment modality ( of total 為 hysterectomy and 大部份 salpingo-oophorectomy and/or 後 external pelvic 照射 with/without intracavitary 陰道 The total 內 of external 骨盆 irradiation is 線劑 cGy (median: 厘葛雷 cGy). Intracavity 平均 was given 厘葛雷 500 cGy 殘端 fraction prescribed 治療 a depth 為 0.5 cm 下 mucosal surface 厘葛雷 the total 為 was 1000-3000 為 (median: 2933 經過 Follow- up 追 ranged from 中位 to 147 整體 (median: 62 組為 The 5-year 因子分析 survival rate 影響 group A 以年齡 group 13 歲 96.9% and 層 respectively. Univariate 大 identified the 及 significant prognostic 為 age, menopausal 之 and myometrial 因子 Multivariate analysis 變數 myometrial invasion 子宮 than half 侵犯 the thickness 於 be the 存活率 factor significant 重要 reduce overall 而 Two of 因子 99 patients 上 group A 在 tumor relapse. 病患 local control 復 is 98%. 五年 of the 為 patients of 位 13 had 位 relapse. The 其 control rate 局部 88%. Conclusion: 結論 retrospective study 我們 good outcome 的 with selective 對 combing surgery 子宮 RT for 治療 risk patients. 對 also confirmed 危險 important prognostic 病患 associated with 手術合 Base on 線 results of 床上 study, further 滿意 study for 及 role of 預後 radiation therapy 做 early stage 一步 cancer patient 的 be designed.
Aims: 目的 evaluation prognostic 早期 and treatment 手術 for early 併 endometrial cancer 的 treated with 各種 or combined 因子 and radiation 方法 (RT)
Material and 月 We desinged 月間 retrospective study 馬 143 patients 接受 StageI/II endometrial 位 treated at 內膜癌 Memorial Hospital 做 1984 and 的 Patients were 再 according to 系統 1988 EGO 乳突 system. Patients 和 papillary serous, 細胞癌 clear cell 討論 were excluded. 病患 were considered 研究 high risk 如果 if they 下列 one or 危險 of the 為 factors: grade 否則 tumor differentiation, 危險群 of myometrial 危險 pathologic cervical ① or adenosquamous 被 Of these 大 patients, 99 ② was treated 第 surgery alone ) A) and 頸 other 36 腺鱗癌 were treated 位 combined surgery 中 RT (Group 病患 Eight (8%) 治療 in group 病患 and thirty 為 patients in 組有 B were 接受 high risk 放射 The main 其中 modality consisted ( total abdominal 為 and bilateral 大部份 and/or postoperative 後 pelvic RT 照射 intracavitary brachytherapy. 陰道 total dose 內 external pelvic 骨盆 is 4000-5400 線劑 (median: 5013 厘葛雷 Intracavity brachytherapy 平均 given with 厘葛雷 cGy per 殘端 prescribed to 治療 depth of 為 cm under 下 surface and 厘葛雷 total dose 為 1000-3000 cOy 為 2933 cGy).
Results: 經過 up duration 追 from 6 中位 147 months 整體 62 months). 組為 5-year overall 因子分析 rate in 影響 A and 以年齡 13 were 歲 and 89.3%, 層 Univariate analysis 大 the following 及 prognostic factors: 為 menopausal status 之 myometrial invasion. 因子 analysis revealed 變數 invasion more 子宮 half of 侵犯 thickness to 於 the only 存活率 significant for 重要 overall survival. 而 of the 因子 patients of 上 A had 在 relapse. The 病患 control rate 復 98%. Four 五年 the 36 為 of group 位 had tumor 位 The local 其 rate is 局部 Conclusion: Our 結論 study revealed 我們 outcome associated 的 selective treatment 對 surgery and 子宮 for high 治療 patients. We 對 confirmed some 危險 prognostic factors 病患 with survival. 手術合 on the 線 of our 床上 further prospective 滿意 for the 及 of adjuvant 預後 therapy for 做 stage endometrial 一步 patient can 的 designed.
目的 To evaluate 舌癌 therapeutic results 在 oral tongue 治療 patients treated 結果 curative intent 方法 the National 研究 University Hospital.
Materials 了 Methods: From 至 to 1994, 舌癌 oral tongue 進行 patients were 方式 by different 手術 including surgery 放射 (85 patients), 位 alone (40 併 and surgery 及 by radiotherapy 位 patients). Patients 於 grouped according 第二期 the American 第三期 Committee on 位 (AJCC) staging 病患 Among these 病理 patients, 33 為 were categorized 男女比例 stage I; 分析 (33%) stage 腫瘤 37 (23%) 頸部 III and 結 (24%) stage 效果 All of 併 were squamous 超過 carcinoma with 之 male to 腫瘤 ratio of 於 4:1. The 於 results of 於 control, neck 與 control, outcomes 接受 complications were 病患 More than 腫瘤 fifths of 好 lesions were 是 on the 併 border of 的 tongue and 好 than 5% 是 either on 效果 dorsum or 很 Primary control 是 of Ti 病患 T2 diseases 手術 the OP 腫瘤 group were 無進 and 86%, 頸部 The T3 結 of OP+REF 頸部 had better 發 control rate 的 67%. Primary 存活率 of T4 手術 was very ％ hi our 合 treatment groups. 手術 for the 治療 disease, patients 發 surgical resection 當中 primary tumor 發 further neck 內 have a 佔 risk (28%) 的 neck failure. 當中 survival rates 於 stage Ⅲ 內 were: R/T ％ 17%; OP 復 24%; OP+R/T, 病患 Eighty-four percent 復 72% recurrence 兩年 T3/T4 and 共有 respectively, occurred 六 one year ) treatment. Overall, 轉移 recurrence occurred 佔 the first 多 years. Sixteen 發生 (10%) showed 糜爛 of distant 併 most commonly 組 in the 的 (75%). The 與 of osteonecrosis 組 similar between ) group (6%) 我們 R/T alone 分析 (3%).
Conclusion: In 治療 study, surgery 有效 control primary 原發 effectively in 單以 and T2 放射 Advanced (T3 效果 T4) disease 合 unlikely to 治療 cured by 病患 therapy or 合 alone and 組 is best 五年 by a 優 combination of 兩組 and radiation ＜ For stageⅢ 的 five-year survival 豐富 was significantly 易 (p＜O.O5) for 到 who were 結 with surgery 只 postoperative radiotherapy. 切除 the primary 要 is treated 的 simple excision, 蹤 failure is 以防 uncommon and 發 radiotherapy to 淋巴 neck lymphatics 或術 decrease its 治療 There was 是 of recurrence 的 beyond the 仍 2 years 復 indicated that 於 long period 所以 follow-up was 期 for tongue 很 patients.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 舌癌 results of 在 tongue cancer 治療 treated with 結果 intent at 方法 National Taiwan 研究 Hospital.
Materials and 了 From 1977 至 1994, 161 舌癌 tongue cancer 進行 were treated 方式 different modalities, 手術 surgery alone 放射 patients), radiotherapy 位 (40 patients) 併 surgery followed 及 radiotherapy (36 位 Patients were 於 according to 第二期 American Joint 第三期 on Cancer 位 staging system. 病患 these 161 病理 33 (20%) 為 categorized as 男女比例 I; 53 分析 stage II; 腫瘤 (23%) stage 頸部 and 38 結 stage IV. 效果 of them 併 squamous cell 超過 with a 之 to female 腫瘤 of approximately 於 The treatment 於 of primary 於 neck node 與 outcomes and 接受 were analyzed.
Results: 病患 than four 腫瘤 of the 好 were located 是 the lateral 併 of the 的 and less 好 5% were 是 on the 效果 or undersurface. 很 control rates 是 Ti and 病患 diseases in 手術 OP alone 腫瘤 were 90% 無進 86%, respectively. 頸部 T3 patients 結 OP+REF group 頸部 better primary 發 rate as 的 Primary control 存活率 T4 disease 手術 very poor ％ our three 合 groups. Even 手術 the early 治療 patients receiving 發 resection of 當中 tumor without 發 neck treatment 內 a higher 佔 (28%) of 的 failure. Five-year 當中 rates of 於 Ⅲ patients 內 R/T alone, ％ OP alone, 復 OP+R/T, 61%. 病患 percent and 復 recurrence in 兩年 and T1/T2, 共有 occurred within 六 year after ) Overall, 86% 轉移 occurred within 佔 first 2 多 Sixteen patients 發生 showed evidence 糜爛 distant metastasis; 併 commonly presented 組 the lung 的 The risk 與 osteonecrosis was 組 between OP+R/T ) (6%) and 我們 alone group 分析 In our 治療 surgery can 有效 primary tumors 原發 in Ti 單以 T2 lesions. 放射 (T3 and 效果 disease is 合 to be 治療 by radiation 病患 or surgery 合 and therefore 組 best managed 五年 a planned 優 of surgery 兩組 radiation therapy. ＜ stageⅢ group, 的 survival rate 豐富 significantly improved 易 for patients 到 were treated 結 surgery and 只 radiotherapy. When 切除 primary lesion 要 treated by 的 excision, neck 蹤 is not 以防 and adjuvant 發 to the 淋巴 lymphatics may 或術 its occurrence. 治療 was 14% 是 recurrence occurred 的 the first 仍 years which 復 that a 於 period of 所以 was important 期 tongue cancer 很
: To evaluate : response and ' of patients ' Hodgkin's disease . different treatment . and Methods: : reviewed clinical : of Hodgkin's ' who received ' (C/T), radiotherapy ( or combined ( and radiotherapy ) from 1977 ) 1991 in ( Taiwan University ( ( NTUH). ) 5-year survival ) (SR) and ( freedom from ( rate (FFR) ) different stages ) calculated and ( by different ( modalities.
Result: The ) 5-year survival ) (SR) and . freedom from . rate (FFR) ( summarized for ( I+Ⅱ, Ⅲ ) IV diseases. ( stage I+Ⅱ ( the SR ) CIT, RIT ) CRT groups . 50%, 60% . 89%; the : were 33%, : and 67% ( In stage ( the SR ) C/T and ) groups were ( and 90%; ( FFR were ) and 90% ) In stage Ⅱ disease, the Ⅱ of C/T Ⅲ CRT groups Ⅲ 45% and . the FFR . were 38%. Ⅱ statistical significance Ⅱ SR was ; between CT, ; and CRT . in different . However, the Ⅲ between C/T Ⅲ R/T groups ; the early . showed statistical . (p＜O.OS). Patients ; histologic subtype ; lymphocyte depletion . the worst . than the . 3 histologic . C/T and ( groups bad ( complications while ＜ complication was ＜ in the . group within . 5-year follow-up.
Conclusion: ) our study, ) disease was . curable by . either C/T, . or CRT. . stage Ⅲand . diseases, no . significance was : by C/T : CRT groups. ' for early ' disease, R/T . a better . of choice Ⅲ R/T group Ⅲ better FFR . no late .
Purpose: : evaluate the : and outcome ' patients of ' disease undergoing . treatment modalities.
Materials . Methods: We : clinical records : Hodgkin's disease ' received chemotherapy ' radiotherapy (R/T) ( combined chemotherapy ( radiotherapy (CRT) ) 1977 to ) in National ( University Hospital ( NTUH). The ) survival rate ) and 5-year ( from relapse ( (FFR) in ) stages were ) and classified ( different treatment ( The overall ) survival rate ) and 5-year . from relapse . (FFR) were ( for stage ( Ⅲ and ) diseases. In ( I+Ⅱ diseases, ( SR of ) RIT and ) groups were . 60% and . the FFR : 33%, 100% : 67% respectively. ( stage Ⅲdisease, ( SR of ) and CRT ) were 72% ( 90%; the ( were 59% ) 90% respectively. ) stage IV Ⅱ the SR Ⅱ C/T and Ⅲ groups were Ⅲ and 38%; . FFR both . 38%. No Ⅱ significance of Ⅱ was noted ; CT, R/T ; CRT groups . different stages. . the FFR Ⅲ C/T and Ⅲ groups in ; early stage . statistical significance . Patients with ; subtype of ; depletion had . worst prognosis . the other . histologic subtypes. . and CRT ( bad some ( while no ＜ was seen ＜ the HIT . within the . follow-up.
Conclusion: In ) study, Hodgkin's ) was potentially . by using . C/T, R/T, . CRT. For . Ⅲand IV . no statistical . was noted : C/T or : groups. However, ' early stage ' R/T is . better treatment . choice because Ⅲ group had Ⅲ FFR and . late complication.
目的 To estimate 正常 tissue complication 併 (NTCP) for 機率 irradiation.
Materials and 以 Before calculation 放射 NTCP, dose 計劃 histograms are 三度 for the 治療 of interest 材料 tolerance doses 方法 uniform whole 直方圖 partial organ 由 are obtained 斷層 published data. 與 calculation of 劑量 volume histograms 佈 straightforward if 而 are an 體積法 number of 一種 scans and 體積 distributions for 轉換 of interest. 可將 effective volume 照射 transforms the 轉換 into a 直方圖 one of 圖之體 (effective volume) 有效 dose (D(subscript 量則 to the 於 dose in 劑量 histogram. NTCP 照射 be obtained 組織 Lyman's model 發症 table of ( normal distribution.
Results: 由 volume histograms 之均勻 various organs 全部 obtained by 器官 with Render-Plan 併 planning system. 機率 volumes for 公式 organs are 得 by calculation 各器官 Kutcher's effective 量 method. Calculation 由 Lyman's model 計劃 table of 計算 normal distribution, 得 obtained the 有效 values for 用 organs.
Conclusion During 體積 normal tissues 得 irradiated along 公式 the tumor. 常態 oncologists try 表可 minimize the 各器官 to normal 結論 while delivering 估算 high dose 治療 the tumor. 特別 this is 三度 and complications 治療 due to 評估 of normal 重要 Estimation of 評估 is important 時 evaluation of 審視劑 treatment plans. 分 is preferable 圖 use NTCP 體積 an additional 圖外 for plan 加上 in conjunction 以便 a review 評估 graphical dose 為 and dose 正確 histograms.
Purpose: 目的 estimate normal 正常 complication probability 併 for nonuniform 機率 and Methods: 以 calculation of 放射 dose volume 計劃 are calculated 三度 the organs 治療 interest and 材料 doses for 方法 whole and 直方圖 organ irradiation 由 obtained from 斷層 data. The 與 of dose 劑量 histograms is 佈 if there 而 an adequate 體積法 of CT 一種 and dose 體積 for organs 轉換 interest. The 可將 volume method 照射 the histogram 轉換 a uniform 直方圖 of height 圖之體 volume) and 有效 (D(subscript max))equal 量則 the maximum 於 in the 劑量 NTCP can 照射 obtained using 組織 model and 發症 of the ( distribution.
Results: Dose 由 histograms for 之均勻 organs are 全部 by calculation 器官 Render-Plan treatment 併 system. Effective 機率 for these 公式 are obtained 得 calculation with 各器官 effective volume 量 Calculation using 由 model and 計劃 of the 計算 distribution, we 得 the NTCP 有效 for these 用 During radiotherapy 體積 tissues are 得 along with 公式 tumor. Radiation 常態 try to 表可 the dose 各器官 normal tissues 結論 delivering a 估算 dose to 治療 tumor. Often 特別 is difficult 三度 complications arise 治療 to irradiation 評估 normal tissues. 重要 of NTCP 評估 important for 時 of 3-dimensional 審視劑 plans. It 分 preferable to 圖 NTCP as 體積 additional tool 圖外 plan evaluation, 加上 conjunction with 以便 review of 評估 dose distributions 為 dose volume 正確
目的 The transmission 主要 of each : and fixed 楔形 were measured 不同 Varian CL-2100C/D 穿透 481 linear 做 The factors 臨床 used to 楔形 the clinical 學資料 data tables 並與 clinical dosimetry 濾板 dynamic wedges 比 The data 了解 be used 楔形 set-up the 上 treatment planning 固定式 also.
Materials and 的 The N.E.0.6cc 對動 type chamber 濾板 2571) connected 的 lonex Dosemaster 使用 was installed 的 the chamber 與 of Scanditronix . water phantom 置 water prove 體射束 The axis 深度 the chamber 及 perpendicular to 處 transverse plane 表面 the wedge. 於 factors in 軸與 were measured 呈 the central 測量 of each ° at 5-cm 及動 for 6 濾板 and 10-cm 照野 for 15 因子 X-rays. The 比 was positioned 變化 the water 楔形 at 100 穿透 SSD. Measurements 野變 performed for 之 sizes ranging 約 4.0-20.0 cm 式 for equivalent 穿透 field to 較 cm. The 濾板 were performed 因子 open, for 照野 and dynamic 變化關 angles. The 呈 factor of 之變 field size 相差 calculated from 結論 output with/without 楔形 The transmission 國內 of each 經驗 wedges were 對 as field 量 increase. The 特性 is around 了解 The factors 劑量 the dynamic 曲線 were larger 與 the fix 等 but the 本文 were decreased 得知 when field 楔形 increase. The 因子 decrement is 係 Conclusion Transmission 規則性 is an 臨床 parameter in 由 applications of 極大 filters. The 應視 of the 大小 of dynamic 其 verse field 求得 is not 監測 same as 欲 ones and 電腦 complex. Due 系統 the variation 式 the factors, 資料 should take 應 attention in 因子 application and 規則 data input 考慮 the planning 的
Purpose: 目的 transmission factors 主要 each dynamic : fixed wedge 楔形 measured for 不同 CL-2100C/D Sn: 穿透 linear accelerator. 做 factors were 臨床 to set-up 楔形 clinical treatment 學資料 tables for 並與 dosimetry for 濾板 wedges utilization. 比 data will 了解 used to 楔形 the computer 上 planning database 固定式 and Methods: 的 N.E.0.6cc Farmer 對動 chamber (Type: 濾板 connected to 的 Dosemaster 2590 使用 installed on 的 chamber frame 與 Scanditronix RFA-300 . phantom with 置 prove protector. 體射束 axis of 深度 chamber is 及 to the 處 plane of 表面 wedge. Output 於 in water 軸與 measured on 呈 central axis 測量 each field ° 5-cm depth 及動 6 MV 濾板 10-cm depth 照野 15 MV 因子 The phantom 比 positioned with 變化 water surface 楔形 100 cm 穿透 Measurements were 野變 for field 之 ranging from 約 cm and 式 equivalent square 穿透 to 25 較 The measurements 濾板 performed for 因子 for fixed 照野 dynamic wedge 變化關 The transmission 呈 of each 之變 size was 相差 from the 結論 with/without wedge.
Results: 楔形 transmission factors 國內 each fixed 經驗 were increased 對 field size 量 The increment 特性 around 3%. 了解 factors of 劑量 dynamic wedge 曲線 larger than 與 fix ones, 等 the factors 本文 decreased irregularly 得知 field size 楔形 The maximum 因子 is 35%. 係 Transmission factor 規則性 an important 臨床 in clinical 由 of wedge 極大 The variation 應視 the factors 大小 dynamic wedges 其 field size 求得 not the 監測 as fixed 欲 and more 電腦 Due to 系統 variation of 式 factors, one 資料 take more 應 in the 因子 and the 規則 input of 考慮 planning system.
目的 To evaluate 回溯 therapeutic results 將馬 stage Ⅲ 醫院 IV advanced 的 carcinoma treated 分期 Mackay Memorial 子宮 over the 的 ten years. 治療 address the 一 direction in 以 management of 治療 disease.
Materials and 依據 From July 從 to June 到 174 patients 在 pathologically proven 紀念 cancer were 中共 All patients 宮內膜癌 staged according 重新 the 1988 病理 staging system. 癌細胞 were 25 以國際 with stage 別系統 disease and 名 patients with Ⅲ IV disease. 癌患 median age 病人 57 years 歲 a range 數為 40-79 years. 表現 vaginal bloody 不 (21/29) was 最為 most common 名 Twenty-eight patients 手術 a surgical 位 initially. Seventeen 手術後輔 received adjuvant 包括 to the 及 pelvis with 腔 ranging from 照射 cGy to 為 cGy and 與 cuff irradiation 蹤 doses ranging 個 2000 cGy 月 3000 cGy, 個 The follow-up 的 ranged from 曲線則 months to 並採用 months. The 不同 five-year cumulative 的 rate was 重新 according to 有 Kaplan-Meier method 為 significance was 期 according to 為 Gehans General 期 test.
Results: Restaging 期 14 cases Ⅳ stage ⅢA 病患 11 with 的 ⅢC, 1 病患 stage IVA 存活率 3 with 名 IVB. The 患者 5-year survival 五年 all patients 細胞 48.3%, and 淺肌層 stage Ⅲ 放療 was 52%. 顯著 were four 病息 with stage 低 disease, three 存活率 them died 差異 the follow-up. 研究 addition, the 對 5- year 內膜癌 rate was 可 higher in 年齡 1 and 期別 than in 分化 3 in 均 myometrial invasion 因而 in the 較 group. Older 存活率 patients did 侵犯 a lower 存活率 survival rate 與 it was 的 statistically significant.
Conclusion: 與 patients with 有關 extrauterine involvement, 單獨 pelvis irradiation 卵管 in better 的 Gross adaexic 其 para-aortic lymph 盆腔 metastases and 取得 or clear 機會 or papillary 巨觀 carcinoma have 宮旁 more aggressive 侵犯 and so 結轉移 irradiation only 分化 adjuvant therapy 透明 inadequate. Therefore 乳突 aggressive therapy 的 extended-field irradiation, 如 abdominal irradiation, 的 therapy and 治療 should be 早
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 回溯 results of 將馬 Ⅲ and 醫院 advanced endometrial 的 treated at 分期 Memorial Hospital 子宮 the past 的 years. To 治療 the future 一 in the 以 of this 治療 and methods: 依據 July 1985 從 June 1996, 到 patients with 在 proven endometrial 紀念 were registered. 中共 patients were 宮內膜癌 according to 重新 1988 FIGO 病理 system. There 癌細胞 25 cases 以國際 stage Ⅲ 別系統 and 4 名 with stage Ⅲ disease. The 癌患 age was 病人 years with 歲 range of 數為 years. Abnormal 表現 bloody discharge 不 was the 最為 common symptom. 名 patients received 手術 surgical approach 位 Seventeen patients 手術後輔 adjuvant radiotherapy 包括 the whole 及 with doses 腔 from 5040 照射 to 5940 為 and vaginal 與 irradiation with 蹤 ranging from 個 cGy to 月 cGy, respectively. 個 follow-up period 的 from 2.5 曲線則 to 161.3 並採用 The acturial 不同 cumulative survival 的 was evaluated 重新 to the 有 method and 為 was calculated 期 to the 為 General Wilcoxan 期 Restaging showed 期 cases with Ⅳ ⅢA disease, 病患 with stage 的 1 with 病患 IVA and 存活率 with stage 名 The overall 患者 survival for 五年 patients was 細胞 and for 淺肌層 Ⅲ patients 放療 52%. There 顯著 four patients 病息 stage IV 低 three of 存活率 died during 差異 follow-up. In 研究 the overall 對 year survival 內膜癌 was statistically 可 in grade 年齡 and 2 期別 in grade 分化 in superficial 均 invasion and 因而 the radiation 較 Older aged 存活率 did have 侵犯 lower 5-year 存活率 rate but 與 was not 的 significant.
Conclusion: In 與 with solitary 有關 involvement, whole 單獨 irradiation results 卵管 better survival. 的 adaexic involvement, 其 lymph node 盆腔 and poordifferentiation 取得 clear cell 機會 papillary serous 巨觀 have a 宮旁 aggressive character, 侵犯 so pelvic 結轉移 only as 分化 therapy is 透明 Therefore further 乳突 therapy including 的 irradiation, whole 如 irradiation, hormonal 的 and chemotherapy 治療 be considered.
: To evaluate : major salivary : functions by . in nasopharyngeal . patients treated : radiotherapy.
Materials and : This analysis : 28 nasopharyngeal ( (NPC) patients ( 31 sialoscintigraphies. ) sialoscintigraphies were ) as pre-radiotherapy ) low dose . cGy), and . dose (＞1050 ( according to ( radiation dose ( to the ) when the ) was performed. ( from 3 ( who received ( the other ＜ patients received ＜ one test. ) 8 normal ) sialoscintigraphics were ( as controls. ( noa-irradiated or ( with high ＞ low doses, ＞ given 10mCi(superscript ) Tc-pertechnetate and ) immediately. Twenty ) later 200 . of lemon . was given . month and . patient was . again for . 20 minutes. . curves and ( cumulative gland ( 99m)Tc-pertechnetate uptake ( each gland ) plotted and ) The stimulated . is defined . stimnlated secretion . The downward . was also . from the ( curve of ( time-activity curve ) describe the ) function.
Results: A ) positive excretion . after lemon . stimulation of : parotid and : glands was : in non-irradiated ( After irradiation ( 1050 cGy ) less, a ) impairment in ) of all [ salivary glands [ noted. The ( of (superscript ( was not ( as compared ) the normal ) and pre-RT ] After a ] dose of × no curves × excretory response × stimulation. In . of qualitative . the 99mTc-pertechnetate . is not . among the . groups of : in either : or submandibular . except in . group after . dose radiations. . down slopes . stimulated secretion ( statistically different ( the non-irradiated ( the irradiated ) The salivary ) secretion was . or partially . in all . after high . radiation . . uptake of . 99m)Tc-pertechnetate after . dose is . higher than . patients. Stimulated . was markedly : after high : radiation. The . imply that . mechanism of . mouth after ( dose irradiation ( mainly excretory ) rather than ) disturbance of ) substances. This . is valuable . the understanding . the underlying . of radiation-induced . gland dysfunction, . may contribute . the future . of this . side effect.
Purpose: : evaluate the : salivary gland : by sialoscintigraphy . nasopharyngeal carcinoma . treated by : and Methods: : analysis includes : nasopharyngeal cancer ( patients and ( sialoscintigraphies. The ) were grouped ) pre-radiotherapy (pre-RT), ) dose (＜1050 . and high . (＞1050 cGy) ( to the ( dose given ( the patients ) the scanning ) performed. Apart ( 3 patients ( received 2scannings, ( other 26 ＜ received only ＜ test. Another ) normal adult ) were included ( controls. Patients, ( or irradiated ( high or ＞ doses, were ＞ 10mCi(superscript 99m) ) and scanned ) Twenty minutes ) 200 ml . lemon juice . given by . and the . was scanned . for another . minutes. Time-activity . and the ( gland (superscript ( uptake of ( gland were ) and calculated. ) stimulated secretion . defined as: . secretion (SS)=[1-(min/max)]×100%. . downward slope . also obtained . the post-stimnlation ( of the ( curve to ) the secretory ) A strong ) excretion response . lemon juice . of both : and submandibular : was noted : non-irradiated patients. ( irradiation of ( cGy or ) a significant ) in secretion ) all major [ glands was [ The trapping ( (superscript 99m)Tc-pertechnetate ( not affected ( compared with ) normal controls ) pre-RT scannings. ] a larger ] of radiations, × curves displayed × response after × In terms . qualitative measurement, . 99mTc-pertechnetate uptake . not different . the four . of patients : either parotid : submandibular glands . in the . after high . radiations. The . slopes and . secretion are ( different between ( non-irradiated and ( irradiated groups.
Conclusion: ) salivary gland ) was totally . partially disturbed . all patients . high dose . . Cumulative . of (superscript . after high . is statistically . than pre-RT . Stimulated secretion . markedly retarded : high dose : The data . that the . of dry . after high ( irradiation was ( excretory dysfunction ) than uptake ) of metabolic ) This observation . valuable in . understanding of . underlying mechanism . radiation-induced salivary . dysfunction, and . contribute to . future resolution . this difficult . effect.
目的 To report 鼻咽癌 case of 定位 recurrent nasopharyngeal 平面 (NPC) remaining 外 32 months 追 7 portals 個 co-planar external 病例 re-irradiation and 與 stereotactic radio-surgery.
Materials 接受 Methods: A 後 patient recurred 復 one year 患者 the first 了 irradiation. He 同 was treated 野之體 a dose 治療 50.4 Gy 再 radiotherapy delivered 刀 7 portals 等 co-planar beams 治療 followed by 立方公分 Gy LINAC-based 於 radiosurgery. In 曲線 the dose 結果 delivered by 治療 of 2 蹤 and prescribed 無 the 80% 進行 curve. The 以及 volume was 的 cubic centimeter.
Results: 在 32 months 月 follow up, 局部 local recurrence 控制 adverse effect 相關 recognized.
Conclusion: Multiple 比起 of co-planar 發 beam radiotherapy 的 radiosurgery in 手術 recurrent NPC 放射 successful in 及體 control and 治療 complication than 野體 treatment modality 治療 as operation, 定位 brachytherapy and 刀手 external radiotherapy. 不 follow up 腫瘤 necessary for 下 evaluation in 後 effect on 仍 organs of 期 kind of 末期 treatment modalities.
Purpose: 目的 report a 鼻咽癌 of locally 定位 nasopharyngeal cancer 平面 remaining disease-free 外 months after 追 portals of 個 external beams 病例 and LINAC-based 與 radio-surgery.
Materials and 接受 A NPC 後 recurred at 復 year after 患者 first local 了 He then 同 treated with 野之體 dose of 治療 Gy external 再 delivered by 刀 portals of 等 beams and 治療 by 10 立方公分 LINAC-based stereotactic 於 In radiosurgery, 曲線 dose was 結果 by using 治療 2 isocenters 蹤 prescribed at 無 80% isodose 進行 The treatment 以及 was 41.75 的 centimeter.
Results: After 在 months of 月 up, no 局部 recurrence or 控制 effect is 相關 Multiple portals 比起 co-planar external 發 radiotherapy and 的 in treating 手術 NPC is 放射 in local 及體 and less 治療 than single 野體 modality such 治療 operation, chemotherapy, 定位 and regular 刀手 radiotherapy. Long-term 不 up is 腫瘤 for further 下 in late 後 on critical 仍 of this 期 of combined 末期 modalities.
目的 The objective 研究 this study 為 designed to 含硼 of the ( containing lipiodol 人類 for boron ( capture therapy, 對 evaluation of 效果 cytotoxicity of 照射 on hepatoma 細胞 after neutron 與 and Methods: 中 cell culture 人類 used to 測試 of the 之 and retention 積聚 B-lipiodol. Light 微鏡 were used 肝癌 examination of 之 interaction and 偶合 of 8-lipiodol 發射光 in the 儀 cell. Boron 含量 was determined 之 ICPASS analysis. 細胞 was used 水池 irradiation of 中 B-lipiodol treated 照射 cells.
Results: Stability 中穩 showed that 結果 was stably 可穩 in lipiodol 於 medium. HepG2 細胞 appeared proficiently 攝入 internalization and 我們 of B-lipiodol. 條件 our tested 捕獲 boron neutron 處理 was highly 細胞 in B-lipiodol 之 HepG2 cells. 劑量 was a 綫 dose response 陡 Hepatoma cells 受測 capable of 細胞會 uptake of 有 and enough 之 of boron 於 retention inside 以供 cells for 捕獲 capture reaction. 於 is a 細胞 cytotoxic and 中子 drug for 上 neutron-capture killing 高細胞 FIepG2 cells.
Objective: 目的 objective of 研究 study was 為 to preparation 含硼 the boron ( lipiodol (B-lipiodol) 人類 boron neutron ( therapy, and 對 of the 效果 of B-lipiodol 照射 hepatoma cells 細胞 neutron irradiation.
Materials 與 Methods: HepG2 中 culture was 人類 to examine 測試 the uptake 之 retention of 積聚 Light microscopes 微鏡 used for 肝癌 of the 之 and retention 偶合 8-lipiodol droplets 發射光 the individual 儀 Boron concentration 含量 determined by 之 analysis. THOR 細胞 used for 水池 of the 中 treated HepG2 照射 Stability test 中穩 that boron 結果 stably retained 可穩 lipiodol contrast 於 HepG2 cells 細胞 proficiently at 攝入 and retention 我們 B-lipiodol. Under 條件 tested condition, 捕獲 neutron capture 處理 highly cytotoxic 細胞 B-lipiodol treated 之 cells. There 劑量 a steep 綫 response relationship.
Conclusion: 陡 cells are 受測 of active 細胞會 of B-lipiodol 有 enough amount 之 boron was 於 inside the 以供 for neutron 捕獲 reaction. B-lipiodol 於 a highly 細胞 and effective 中子 for the 上 killing of 高細胞 cells.
目的 To describe 印第安那 treatment facility 回旋 the proton 治療 planning algorithm 及其 the Indiana 劑量 Cyclotron Facility 材料 for patient 印第安那 calculation.
Materials and 迴 A 45-200 質子 proton beam 具有 is available ( IUCF for 的 patient treatments. 射束 treatment beam 射束 consists of 裝置 beam spreading 能量 range modulator 及給 beam and 監視 monitoring diagnostics. 治療 planning is 系統 to conventional 光子 photon and 治療 radiotherapy. The 量 calculation algorithm 程式 is based 射束 a ray-tracing 設質子 which assumes 內以 protons penetrate 的 media following 質子 paths. The 碰撞 multiple scattering 是 are implicitly 測量 in the 的 by incorporating 分布 lateral beam 而 Measured central 隨 depth dose 的 is also 由 into the 得到 to model 深度 energy loss 佈 along defined 在 ray paths. 上 well-known relationship 重要 CT number 質 electron density 利用 stopping power) 數與物質 tissues was 密度 for our 校正 scanner and 而 data were 與 used to 經由 the input 顯示 dose for 物質 heterogeneities along 電子 ray paths. 之間 and Discussion: 正比 linear relationship 性關 CT number 直 electron density 射 the range 散 interest was 劑 by direct 算 The advantage 好 the chosen 其 method lies 計算 its short 能維持 time while 可 a clinically 準確度 point dose 三照 An example 的 for a 計畫 three field 在 technique was 的 Calculation time ( this plan 其所 less than 可少 minutes on 結論 Sun Spare 三照 workstation.
Conclusion: An 平面 calculation for 計畫 coplanar three 可知 treatment technique 射 the ray 發 method to 爲 an accurate 確 clinically feasible 用于 dose calculation 床上 Its fast 治療 calculation time 方法 it an 的 candidate for 計算 treatment planning 在 calculation in 臨床 busy clinical 應用
Purpose: 目的 describe the 印第安那 facility and 回旋 proton treatment 治療 algorithm at 及其 Indiana University 劑量 Facility (IUCF) 材料 patient dose 印第安那 and Methods: 迴 45-200 MeV 質子 beam line 具有 available at ( for cancer 的 treatments. The 射束 beam line 射束 of a 裝置 spreading system, 能量 modulator and 及給 and dose 監視 diagnostics. Treatment 治療 is similar 系統 conventional 3-D 光子 and electron 治療 The dose 量 algorithm used 程式 based on 射束 ray-tracing method 設質子 assumes that 內以 penetrate dense 的 following straight 質子 The proton 碰撞 scattering effects 是 implicitly included 測量 the algorithm 的 incorporating measured 分布 beam data. 而 central axis 隨 dose data 的 also incorporated 由 the algorithm 得到 model the 深度 loss process 佈 defined proton 在 paths. The 上 relationship between 重要 number and 質 density (i.e. 利用 power) of 數與物質 was measured 密度 our CT 校正 and the 而 were then 與 to connect 經由 input depth 顯示 for tissue 物質 along proton 電子 paths. 
Results 之間 Discussion: A 正比 relationship between 性關 number and 直 density over 射 range of 散 was defined 劑 direct measurements. 算 advantage of 好 chosen ray-tracing 其 lies in 計算 short calculation 能維持 while maintaining 可 clinically acceptable 準確度 dose accuracy. 三照 example calculation 的 a coplanar 計畫 field treatment 在 was demonstrated. 的 time for ( plan took 其所 than two 可少 on a 結論 Spare 10 三照 An example 平面 for a 計畫 three field 可知 technique demonstrated 射 ray tracing 發 to be 爲 accurate and 確 feasible proton 用于 calculation algorithm. 床上 fast dose 治療 time makes 方法 an ideal 的 for proton 計算 planning dose 在 in a 臨床 clinical environment.
目的 To study 有關 interval between 治療 incident of 遠端 metastases and 回溯 radiotherapy, the 針對 metastatic sites, 林口 the survival 醫院 metastases in 科 carcinoma (N 根除 patients.
Materials and 治療 One thousand 遠端 hundred and 鼻咽癌 (1195) NPC 觀察 had completed 轉移 treatment of 性 in radiation 的 department at 及 Gung Memorial 等 from April 與 to Dcecember 月 Two hundred 月 patients (21%) 位 found to 接受 distant metastases 放射 the end 位 August 1996.
Results: 追 liver, and 查 were the 有 common metastatic 轉 Forty-eitht percent 跡 happened within 在 year and 的 within 2 以 Less than 及 of distant 最為 occurred 5 的 after primary 治療 irradiation. Most 內 the patients 轉移 within one 發現 (8 months 是 survival) after 後 metastases had 轉移 diagnosed. The 低 distant mestastases 轉移 rates in 存活 and two 數為 were 35% 年 12% respectively.
Discussion: 為 majority of 為 died within 患者 years after 遠端 metastases were 後 Most of 時間 distant metastases 在 within 2 內 after radiotherapy, 轉移 metastases were 上 most common 最為
Purpose: 目的 study the 有關 between the 治療 of distant 遠端 and radical 回溯 the preferable 針對 sites, and 林口 survival after 醫院 in nasopharyngeal 科 (N PC) 根除 and Methods: 治療 thousand one 遠端 and ninety-five 鼻咽癌 NPC patients 觀察 completed local 轉移 of radiotherapy 性 radiation oncology 的 at Chang 及 Memorial Hospital 等 April 1979 與 Dcecember 1990. 月 hundred fifty-two 月 (21%) were 位 to have 接受 metastases by 放射 end of 位 1996.
Results: Bone, 追 and lung 查 the most 有 metastatic sites. 轉 percent metastases 跡 within 1 在 and 73% 的 2 years. 以 than 5% 及 distant metastases 最為 5 years 的 primary nasopharyngeal 治療 Most of 內 patients died 轉移 one year 發現 months median 是 after distant 後 had been 轉移 The post 低 mestastases survival 轉移 in one 存活 two years 數為 35% and 年 respectively.
Discussion: The 為 of patients 為 within 2 患者 after distant 遠端 were diagnosed. 後 of the 時間 metastases happened 在 2 years 內 radiotherapy, skeletal 轉移 were the 上 common site.
目的 Malignancy is 近年 leading cause 躋身 death in 死因 High prevalence 在 nasopharyngeal cancer 中國 is recognized 率 Taiwan and 地方 China compared 所以 the rest 健康 the world. 是 aim of 課題 study is 鼻咽癌 improve the 之 of nursing 探討 management of 發病齡 patients by 職業 the age, 之影響 places, employment, 病史 history, site 原因 metastases, follow-up 部位 and causes 追踪 death.
Material and 比率 Radiation Oncology 日後護理 in Chang 材料 Memorial Hospital 林口 registered 2860 放射 cases in 從 years, from 年 to 1994. 錄有 age, living 進行 employment, family 資料 site of 根據 follow up 該科 and causes 幷 death were 繫 Thirty percentages 訊 patients diagnosed 結果 the age 之發 41 to 歲 Two hundred 職業 twenty-six (7.9%) 以 them have 家管 family history, 居住地 44patients have 以桃園 primary malignancy, 年 than NPC. 中間 median survival 年 was 3.83 中 and survival 癌 at five 位 was 43%. 有 these 2860 以上 almost half 共 them (1415 在 deceased, one 鼻咽癌 and two 位 of uncontrollable 死亡 disease or 中 recurrence, and 乃因 patients died 發 distant metastases. 控制 remaining 113 ( (8%) died 轉移 intercurrent diseases.
Conclusion: ) mainly occurred 以外 middle age 而 causing a 好 impact on 時期 family and 産 so early 影響 and treatment 教育 essential. Good 早期 and organizing 專業 registry in 參與 patients is 的 in cancer 追踪 and investigation.
Purpose: 目的 is the 近年 cause of 躋身 in Taiwan. 死因 prevalence of 在 cancer (NPC) 中國 recognized in 率 and Southern 地方 compared to 所以 rest of 健康 world. The 是 of this 課題 is to 鼻咽癌 the role 之 nursing in 探討 of NPC 發病齡 by analyzing 職業 age, living 之影響 employment, family 病史 site of 原因 follow-up patterns 部位 causes of 追踪 and Methods: 比率 Oncology Department 日後護理 Chang Gung 材料 Hospital has 林口 2860 NPC 放射 in sixteen 從 from 1979 年 1994. The 錄有 living places, 進行 family history, 資料 of metastases, 根據 up patterns 該科 causes of 幷 were examined.
Results: 繫 percentages of 訊 diagnosed in 結果 age from 之發 to 50. 歲 hundred and 職業 (7.9%) of 以 have cancer 家管 history, and 居住地 have second 以桃園 malignancy, other 年 NPC. The 中間 survival time 年 3.83 years 中 survival rate 癌 five years 位 43%. In 有 2860 patients, 以上 half of 共 (1415 cases) 在 one thousand 鼻咽癌 two died 位 uncontrollable local 死亡 or local 中 and 300 乃因 died of 發 metastases. The 控制 113 cases ( died of 轉移 diseases.
Conclusion: NPC ) occurred at 以外 age that 而 a great 好 on the 時期 and society, 産 early detection 影響 treatment is 教育 Good follow-up 早期 organizing cancer 專業 in cancer 參與 is substantial 的 cancer research 追踪 investigation.
目的 The quality 測量 procedures for 時 Micro-Selectron source 工作 were performed 荷 the (superscript 更新 source changed. 以 basic items 及井型 source strength 其 source position 比 and head 二 protection ability 供日 
Materials and 測量 According to 以雙重 suggestions of 射源 TG-40, 0.6cc 射源 type ionization 同時 and PRM 機頭 chambers were 以確 to measure 與 source strength. 之建議 V-films were 曝光 to check 射源 source position 虛擬 according to 之準 autoradiography method. . head radiation 及 ability was 連接 by Victoreen 修正 
Results: The 其 strength was 提供 estimated from 治療 cc Farmer 測量 ionization chamber 結果 +1.5%) while 位置 PRM chamber's 間 appear under 可準 The source 活度 can be 套管 within 1mm 距 the head 活度 protection is 小 to the 游離腔 and The 之值 of Atomic 之 regulation.
Conclusion: The 之 strength and 量 position affect 表面 treatment quality 小 The PRM 之 type chamber 射源 convenient for 之準 routine source 響劑 calibration. The 投予 protection ability 此二項 the regulation 治療 is safe 依據 the staffs.
Purpose: 目的 quality assurance 測量 for Nucletron 時 source renew 工作 performed when 荷 (superscript 192)Ir 更新 changed. The 以 items are 及井型 strength measurement, 其 position alignment 比 head radiation 二 ability survey. 供日 and Methods: 測量 to the 以雙重 of AAPM 射源 0.6cc Farmer 射源 ionization chamber 同時 PRM well 機頭 were used 以確 measure the 與 strength. Kodak 之建議 were used 曝光 check the 射源 position alignment 虛擬 to the 之準 method. The . radiation protection 及 was surveyed 連接 Victoreen 450P. 修正 The source 其 was over 提供 from 0.6 治療 Farmer type 測量 chamber (around 結果 while the 位置 chamber's reading 間 under estimated. 可準 source position 活度 be accurated 套管 1mm and 距 head radiation 活度 is satisfied 小 the NRC 游離腔 The Council 之值 Atomic Energy's 之 The source 之 and source 量 affect the 表面 quality greatly. 小 PRM well 之 chamber is 射源 for the 之準 source strength 響劑 The head 投予 ability satisfies 此二項 regulation and 治療 safe to 依據 staffs.
目的 This is 近接 introduce a 放射 brachytherapy application 特殊 radiotherapy intraoperative 手術 brachytherapy.
Materials and 率 Using an 材料 room possessing 利用 walls, monitors 防護 computer-controlled anesthesia 及 combined with 之 high-dose-rate after-loading 的 modality and 率 special designed 的 or super-mould 機及 let radiation 的 distribute very 讓 on any 可以 of body 佈 cavity, especially 內腔 the arch 表面 such as 是 cavity of 弧度 or retroperitoneum. 盆腔 this is 腹腔 radiotherapy during 於 the possible 手術 organs, such 治療 intestine, kidney 把 liver can 造成 blocked as 的 as possible. 如小腸 the effective 臓 dose can 放射 reduced and 離 radiation-inducing damage.
Result: 降低 of intraoperative 劑量 brachytherapy and 產生 dose (40-45Gy) 結果 external radiotherapy 近接 the treatment 中度 primary and 體外 colorectal cancers ) retroperitoneum cancers 原發 significantly improved 發直 control. For 後 tumors, there 腫瘤 reported of 的 of two-year 報告 control rate.
Conclusion: 的 high-dose-rate brachytherapy 手術 a novel 率 opportunity for 提供 tumors difficult 傳統 reach optimally 理想 by traditional 腫瘤 methods, such 或 the tumors 一個 pelvis or 癒 cavity.
Introduction: 目的 is to 近接 a special 放射 application in 特殊 intraoperative high-dose-rate 手術 and Methods: 率 an operation 材料 possessing radiation-protection 利用 monitors and 防護 anesthesia instruments, 及 with remote-controlled 之 after-loading brachytherapy 的 and a 率 designed super-flab 的 super-mould applicator, 機及 radiation dose 的 very evenly 讓 any surface 可以 body inner 佈 especially on 內腔 arch surface, 表面 as the 是 of pelvis 弧度 retroperitoneum. Since 盆腔 is a 腹腔 during surgery, 於 possible radiation-damaged 手術 such as 治療 kidney and 把 can be 造成 as much 的 possible. Hence, 如小腸 effective radiotherapy 臓 can be 放射 and avoid 離 damage.
Result: Combination 降低 intraoperative high-dose-rate 劑量 and moderate 產生 (40-45Gy) of 結果 radiotherapy in 近接 treatment of 中度 and recurrent 體外 cancers and ) cancers has 原發 improved tumor 發直 For these 後 there were 腫瘤 of 80-90% 的 two-year tumor 報告 rate.
Conclusion: Intraoperative 的 brachytherapy provides 手術 novel curable 率 for those 提供 difficult to 傳統 optimally tumor-controlled 理想 traditional treatment 腫瘤 such as 或 tumors in 一個 or retroperitoneum 癒
臨 is a 對 to determine 治療 treatment field 之 diagnostic films 得 radiotherapy. By 模擬 visualization of ( organs, the 於 position of 拍 can be 影片 by physicians 清晰 relation to 解剖 landmarks. Some 決定 areas we 範圍 like to 身上 in treatment ( (eg. anus, 上 lymph node) 對 to spare 中心 lens, colostomy) 但 cerrobend block 想 not located 之 at the 如 of body 淋巴 and are 想 from the 某些 beam axis 如 the field 水晶 Because of 並非 beam divergency 厚 the field 中心 may be 且 extended or 之 limited by 接近 beam directions. 四周 those areas 時應 be marked 地標 and we 並特別 especially consider 攝影 direction of 方向 beam. It 照野邊 be one 因射束 the crucial 效應 of marginal 而 of treatment 不夠 we do 引起 pay attention 失敗 it.
Simulation 臨 a technique 對 determine the 治療 field via 之 films before 得 By radiographic 模擬 of internal ( the correct 於 of fields 拍 be obtained 影片 physicians in 清晰 to external 解剖 Some of 決定 we would 範圍 to include 身上 treatment fields ( anus, neck 上 node) or 對 spare (eg. 中心 colostomy) by 但 block are 想 located exactly 之 the midline 如 body thickness 淋巴 are far 想 the central 某些 axis (near 如 field margin). 水晶 of the 並非 divergency effect, 厚 field margin 中心 be too 且 or too 之 by different 接近 directions. Therefore, 四周 areas should 時應 marked clearly 地標 we should 並特別 consider the 攝影 of simulation 方向 It may 照野邊 one of 因射束 crucial factors 效應 marginal failure 而 treatment if 不夠 do not 引起 attention to 失敗
目的 To describe 醫院 structure of 設備 hospital-based proton 旋 facility.
Materials and 構造 We take 方法 conceptual design 美國 the Texas 醫學 Medical Technology 自行 for construction 設備 a hospital-based 設計 therapy facility 叙述 a reference 灣在 describe the 籌建 of a 旋 for cancer 構造 treatment in 質子 Hospital-base proton 綫 consists of 之用 system and 質子 traditional facilities. 涵蓋 system includes 和 injector and 兩大類 accelerator subsystem, 以 beam transport, 最具 with beam 系統 and nozzle, 入 couch and 加速器 subsystems etc. 加速器 facilities consist 同步 building, medical 加速器 and equipment, 旋轉架 supportive facilities 和 radiation oncology 管 as patient 治療 fixation, simulation, 次系統 planning, etc. 設施則 that the 診斷 therapy facility 與 be most 腫瘤學 efficient and 固定 to the 攝影 and effective 及其 comfortable fir 設備 cancer patients.
Conclusion: 設備 hospital-based proton 的 facility is 患 combination of 有效 energy physics 結論 and radiation 質子 This is 設備 great challenge 工程 also an 的 opportunity for 臺 and physicians 與 Taiwan. An 一種 understanding of 也 structure of 機會 proton therapy 治療 will ensure 內容 more mature 的 and implementation 當會 such a 的 engineering program 項 the century 醫學 many cancer 多癌 can be benefited.
Purpose: 目的 describe the 醫院 of a 設備 proton therapy 旋 and methods: 構造 take the 方法 design of 美國 Texas Regional 醫學 Technology Center 自行 construction of 設備 hospital-based proton 設計 facility as 叙述 reference and 灣在 the structure 籌建 a synchrotron 旋 cancer patient 構造 in Taiwan.
Results: 質子 proton facility 綫 of technical 之用 and the 質子 facilities. Technical 涵蓋 includes the 和 and the 兩大類 subsystem, synchrotron, 以 transport, gantry 最具 beam transport 系統 nozzle, treatment 入 and control 加速器 etc. Traditional 加速器 consist of 同步 medical imaging 加速器 equipment, other 旋轉架 facilities of 和 oncology such 管 patient position 治療 simulation, treatment 次系統 etc. so 設施則 the protn 診斷 facility will 與 most accurate, 腫瘤學 and convenient 固定 the operators, 攝影 effective and 及其 fir the 設備 patients.
Conclusion: A 設備 proton therapy 的 is the 患 of high 有效 physics engineering 結論 radiation medicine. 質子 is a 設備 challenge but 工程 an unprecedent 的 for scientists 臺 physicians in 與 An inept 一種 of the 也 of the 機會 therapy facility 治療 ensure a 內容 mature planning 的 implementation of 當會 a medical 的 program across 項 century and 醫學 cancer patients 多癌 be benefited.
學習 purpose of 動態學 tumor kinetics 主要 for the 為 of patients 預後及 for the 病人 of the 治療 treatment. S-phase 腫瘤 (SPF) as 分率 as ploidy 體倍 of a 為 for example, 的 been used 指標 for prognosis 在 treatment guidance 前後之動態 clinic. The 到 of a 成敗 before and 例如 the treatment 循環期 an important 較 which may 腫瘤 the outcome 採用 the therapy. 細胞 a tumor 較佳毒 high SPF, 藥物 the cytotoxic 放射 specific for 目前 or M-phase 使用 should be 不外 in chemotherapy 是 the accelerated 複 should be 所 in radiotherapy. 之 are two 抑制 of drugs 合成 used for 而 chemotherapy. One 期細胞 which can 種化學 the activity 為 the enzyme 細胞 for DNA 如 such as 聚合 which kills 破碎 cells by 死 the activity 放射 thymydylate synthetase. 於 second one 有 M-phase cells 之 destructing the 傷力 required for 期細胞 processes, such 效果 vinblastine which 差 tubulin assembly 癌症 cyclophosphamide which 配合 in fragmentation 方式 synaptonemal complex. 平均 on the 內 way, is 之 effective in 及 G2/M cells 上述 less effective 治療 S-phase cells. 效果 treatments, however, 因此 not very 腫瘤 for hypoxic 之動態 which in 必要 accounts for 探討 of solid 就 and those 及其 in the 技術 stage. The 潛在 one understands 倍增 tumor kinetics, 損失 higher control 此等 one may 觀念 The following 應用 subjects and 討論 clinical applications 生長 discussed: cell 潛在 and its 時間 techniques, growth 細胞 potential tumor 則有 time and 之 loss.
The 學習 of studying 動態學 kinetics are 主要 the prognosis 為 patients and 預後及 the choice 病人 the optimal 治療 S-phase fraction 腫瘤 as well 分率 ploidy status 體倍 a tumor, 為 example, has 的 used frequently 指標 prognosis and 在 guidance in 前後之動態 The kinetics 到 a tumor 成敗 and after 例如 treatment plays 循環期 important role 較 may affect 腫瘤 outcome of 採用 therapy. For 細胞 tumor with 較佳毒 SPF, either 藥物 cytotoxic drugs 放射 for S- 目前 M-phase cells 使用 be used 不外 chemotherapy or 是 accelerated treatment 複 be adopted 所 radiotherapy. There 之 two kinds 抑制 drugs currently 合成 for clinical 而 One of 期細胞 can inhibit 種化學 activity of 為 enzyme required 細胞 DNA replication, 如 as 5-fluorouracil 聚合 kills S-phase 破碎 by inhibiting 死 activity of 放射 synthetase. The 於 one killed 有 cells by 之 the organelle 傷力 for mitotic 期細胞 such as 效果 which breaks 差 assembly and 癌症 which results 配合 fragmentation of 方式 complex. Radiotherapy, 平均 the other 內 is more 之 in killing 及 cells but 上述 effective for 治療 cells. Both 效果 however, are 因此 very effective 腫瘤 hypoxic cells, 之動態 in average 必要 for 15% 探討 solid tumors, 就 those cells 及其 the GJG0 技術 The more 潛在 understands the 倍增 kinetics, the 損失 control rate 此等 may obtain. 觀念 following four 應用 and their 討論 applications were 生長 cell cycle 潛在 its measuring 時間 growth fraction, 細胞 tumor doubling 則有 and cell 之
侖 Wilhelm Conrad 琴 was awarded 年 Doctorate of 歲 degree in 在 in the 瑞士 School of 理工 Polytechnic, Switzerland 學院 he was 博士 years old. 後 worked as 先生 research assistant 在 two years 任實驗 the same 物理 with his 研究 Mr. August 助理 Roentgen followed 月 Kundt and 德國 Zurich for 烏茲堡 short term 短期 the University 任職 Wurzburg. During 與 time, Roentgen 陸博莎 with Miss 兒 Ludwig on 時長 19, 1872 的 Apeldoorn, Holland 荷蘭 he spent 同年 years in 隨孔 childhood. Roentgen 往史 professor Kundt 查斯 to work 任職 his assistant 努力 the University 工作 Strasbourg in 講師 After two 職銜 of successful 父母 he was 搬來 to be 年聘 instructor, his 為 academic position, 研究所 his parents 物理 with them. 數學 a year, 系主任 accepted to 與 the Department 工餘 Physics and 環境 at the 翌年 Academy in 回史 where the 堡 and social 大學擔 were not 物理 satisfy, so 學 1876 he 由 to the 於 of Strasbourg 優異 worked as 兩年 associate professor 後 the orectic 被 During this 吉森大學 Roentgen began 物理 establish his 教授 in physics. 系主任 year later 在 was recruited 九年 be professor 生活 chairman of 成就 at the 均 of Giessen 可觀 Roentgens spent 母 extremely happy 父則 However, his 相繼 and father 和 respectively at 高齡 age of 因博莎 and 83. 多年 of childless, 乃 adopted Josephine 其兄 the daughter 之 Bertha's brother. 年終 acquired a 因聲譽 reputation in 被 academic circles, 烏茲堡 1888 he 為 offered and 物理 accepted the 教授 of professor 兼 physics and 研究院 of the 院長 Physical Institute. 之 was there 後 years later, 在 discovered x-rays.
Mr. 侖 Conrad Roentgen 琴 awarded his 年 of Philosophy 歲 in 1869 在 the Graduate 瑞士 of Zurich 理工 Switzerland when 學院 was 24 博士 old. He 後 as a 先生 assistant for 在 years in 任實驗 same school 物理 his professor 研究 August Kundt. 助理 followed professor 月 and left 德國 for a 烏茲堡 term at 短期 University of 任職 During this 與 Roentgen married 陸博莎 Miss Bertha 兒 on January 時長 1872 in 的 Holland where 荷蘭 spent many 同年 in his 隨孔 Roentgen followed 往史 Kundt again 查斯 work as 任職 assistant in 努力 University of 工作 in 1872. 講師 two years 職銜 successful work, 父母 was promoted 搬來 be an 年聘 his first 為 position, while 研究所 parents lived 物理 them. Within 數學 year, Roentgen 系主任 to chair 與 Department of 工餘 and Mathematics 環境 the Agricultural 翌年 in Wurttemberg 回史 the scientific 堡 social lives 大學擔 not quite 物理 so in 學 he returned 由 the University 於 Strasbourg and 優異 as an 兩年 professor of 後 orectic physics. 被 this period 吉森大學 began to 物理 his reputation 教授 physics. Two 系主任 later he 在 recruited to 九年 professor and 生活 of physics 成就 the University 均 Giessen where 可觀 spent nine 母 happy years. 父則 his mother 相繼 father died 和 at their 高齡 of 74 因博莎 83. Because 多年 childless, Roentgens 乃 Josephine Bertha, 其兄 daughter of 之 brother. Roentgen 年終 a high 因聲譽 in the 被 circles, in 烏茲堡 he was 為 and willingly 物理 the post 教授 professor of 兼 and director 研究院 the new 院長 Institute. It 之 there seven 後 later, Roentgen 在 x-rays.
緒言 The presence 活檢組織 Epstein-Barr virus 存在 genome in 組和 of nasopharyngeal 的 (NPC) and 學證據 evidence in 病毒 patients indicated 的 ED virus 中起 an important 作用 in the 沒有 of NPC. 證據 there is 病毒 direct evidence 鼻咽癌 EB virus 在 the etiological 高發區 of NPC. 大量 are many 和 medicinal herbs 含有 foods containing 誘導物 virus inducers 促癌物 tumor promoters 正常人 NPC high 部 areas. Many 厭氧菌 bacteria producing 產生 acid could 與 be found 協同 the nasopharynces. 鼻咽癌 of them 重要 with ED 方法 may play 原位 important role 擴增 the development 及 NPC.
Methods: The 序列 membrane protein 檢測 (LMP1) gene 細胞株 RB virus 中 in the 病毒 carcinoma cell 膜蛋白 (CNE1, CNE3) 基因 detected by 轉染 situ hybridization, 化 amplification, cloning 後 nucleotide sequence 完整 293 (human 接種 kidney cells) 裸鼠 with CR2 一次 infected with 在 REV. These 一實驗 were transplanted 病毒感染 nude mice 人 cutaneously. A 鼻咽 later, each 移植 was injected 皮下 5Ong TPA 一次 In another 丁酸 nude mice 誘發 subcutaneously transplanted 腫瘤 human fetal 組織 mucosa infected 學檢查 REV. 200ug 的 and 50ng 原位 were injected 和 once a 分析 following the 細胞 Tumors were 基因 histopathologcally. The 於 of EBV 整合 were determined 第一 PCR, in 染色 hybridization, and 基因 sequence analysis 存在 EBV LMP-1 細胞 LMP1 gene 及 integrated into 體上 No.1 chromosome 序列 CNE1, and 證明 several chromosomes 分別 CNE3. The 及 3 of 擴增 gene was 了 by PCR 外顯子 cloned from 序列 and CNE3. 證明 analyses of 的 PCR products 來 a high 細胞 of 99.5% 核苷酸 B95-8 strain 極高達 CNE1, and 的 lower homology 與 93% between 同源性 and CNE3. 用 differentiated carcinoma 的 found in 接種 mice transplanted 在 EBV infected 下 cells under 低 influence of 用 Undifferentiated nasopharyngeal 的 was also 胎兒 in nude 粘膜 transplanted with 裸鼠 human fetal 和 mucosa by 作用 effect of 未 and butyrate. 鼻咽癌 virus existed 存在 all of 所有 carcinoma cells.
Conclusion: 中 present data 本 for the 結果 time that 完整 synergistic effect 病毒 RB virus 促癌 tumor promoter 作用 induce nasopharyngeal 鼻咽癌 Our data 的 confirmed that 也 virus could 在 an etiological 的 in the 中起 of nasopharyngeal 作用
Introduction: 緒言 presence of 活檢組織 virus (EBV) 存在 in dispose 組和 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 的 and serological 學證據 in NPC 病毒 indicated that 的 virus plays 中起 important role 作用 the development 沒有 NPC. However, 證據 is no 病毒 evidence that 鼻咽癌 virus is 在 etiological cause 高發區 NPC. There 大量 many Chinese 和 herbs and 含有 containing ES 誘導物 inducers and 促癌物 promoters in 正常人 high risk 部 Many anaerobic 厭氧菌 producing butyric 產生 could also 與 found in 協同 nasopharynces. Both 鼻咽癌 them together 重要 ED virus 方法 play an 原位 role in 擴增 development of 及 The latent 序列 protein 1 檢測 gene of 細胞株 virus contained 中 the nasopharyngeal 病毒 cell line 膜蛋白 CNE3) was 基因 by in 轉染 hybridization, PCR 化 cloning and 後 sequence analysis.Immortalized 完整 (human fetal 接種 cells) transfected 裸鼠 CR2 were 一次 with B95-8 在 These cells 一實驗 transplanted into 病毒感染 mice sub 人 A week 鼻咽 each mouse 移植 injected with 皮下 TPA subcutaneously. 一次 another experiment, 丁酸 mice were 誘發 transplanted with 腫瘤 fetal nasopharygeal 組織 infected with 學檢查 200ug butyrate 的 50ng TPA 原位 injected subcutaneously 和 a week 分析 the tramplantation. 細胞 were examined 基因 The presence 於 EBV DNA 整合 determined by 第一 in situ 染色 and nucleotide 基因 analysis of 存在 LMP-1 gene.
Results: 細胞 gene is 及 into the 體上 chromosome in 序列 and into 證明 chromosomes in 分別 The exon 及 of LMP1 擴增 was amplified 了 PCR and 外顯子 from CNE1 序列 CNE3. Sequence 證明 of these 的 products revealed 來 high homology 細胞 99.5% between 核苷酸 strain and 極高達 and a 的 homology of 與 between B95-8 同源性 CNE3. Poorly 用 carcinoma was 的 in nude 接種 transplanted with 在 infected 293 下 under the 低 of TPA. 用 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 的 also found 胎兒 nude mice 粘膜 with RBV-infected 裸鼠 fetal nasopharyngeal 和 by synergistic 作用 of TPA 未 butyrate. EB 鼻咽癌 existed in 存在 of these 所有 cells.
Conclusion: The 中 data demonstrated 本 the first 結果 that the 完整 effect of 病毒 virus and 促癌 promoter can 作用 nasopharyngeal carcinoma. 鼻咽癌 data also 的 that EU 也 could play 在 etiological role 的 the development 中起 nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
目的 To analyze 鼻咽癌 treatment-related acute 次 late toxicities 治療 NPC patients 的 hyperfractionated radiotherapy.
Materials 以作 Methods: During 選擇 period from 參考 1991 to 自民國 1996, 50 起至 were treated 止 hyperfractionated radiotherapy 鼻咽癌 120 cGy 次 and 6-hour 其中 There were 例 males and 兩 females with 第三 age range 自 17-79. All 不 2 cases 歲 of AJCC 兩次間 III & 一般 During the 治療 period, acute 每週 were recorded 一次 a week. 詳細 toxicities were 於 evaluated on 表格 follow-up visit 每次 completion of 記錄 RTOG/EORTC criteria 晚期 used to 副作用 toxicities.
Results: Dry 之標準 was the 方面 commonly found 沒有 side effect 黏膜炎 all patients. 的 mucositis developed 為 96% of 現惡心 patients, with 為 of grade 第三 Nausea/vomiting occurred 輕微 20 cases 皮膚 were mostly 例 except one. 而且 desquamation was 輕微 in 8 平均 Leukopenia was 副作用 frequent and 最常見 Body weight 均 was 8.2±0.6%. 組織 late toxicities, 人 was again 大多 most common 之 affected all ' Neck fibrosis 病人 found in 其它 patients (26%), 減退 mild. Twelve 及 developed Lhermitte's 約 No other 病人 dysfunction has 有 noted. Hearing 有 was often 下齒 with otitis 結論 and occurred 治療 about 1/ 病人 of patients. 急性 patients had 頗 and one 因此 radionecrosis at 進行 posterior alveolar 急性 of the 輕微 mandible.
Conclusions: Hyperfractionated 治療 induced a 所 proportion of 治療 However, the 似並 tolerance was 照射 compromised by 副作用 Other acute 骨壤 resembled that 嚴重 conventional radiotherapy 的 in frequency 傳統 severity. This 不過 applied to 一步 complications except 對 case with 作 Longer follow-up 結論 needed before 階段 definite conclusion 放射 he made. 應不會 the present 但會 hyperfractionated radiotherapy, 及 its theoretical 的 appears to 不失 a reasonable 在 to conventional 之外 for NPC patients.
Purpose: 目的 analyze the 鼻咽癌 acute and 次 toxicities of 治療 patients after 的 radiotherapy.
Materials and 以作 During the 選擇 from Oct. 參考 to June 自民國 50 patients 起至 treated using 止 radiotherapy with 鼻咽癌 cGy bid 次 6-hour intervals. 其中 were 35 例 and 15 兩 with the 第三 range of 自 All except 不 cases were 歲 AJCC stage 兩次間 & IV. 一般 the treatment 治療 acute toxicities 每週 recorded once 一次 week. Late 詳細 were also 於 on every 表格 visit after 每次 of radiotherapy. 記錄 criteria are 晚期 to grade 副作用 Dry mouth 之標準 the most 方面 found acute 沒有 effect affecting 黏膜炎 patients. Acute 的 developed in 為 of the 現惡心 with 62% 為 grade 3. 第三 occurred in 輕微 cases and 皮膚 mostly mild 例 one. Moist 而且 was noted 輕微 8 patients. 平均 was not 副作用 and mild. 最常見 weight loss 均 8.2±0.6%. For 組織 toxicities, xerostomia 人 again the 大多 common and 之 all patients. ' fibrosis was 病人 in 13 其它 (26%), mostly 減退 Twelve patients 及 Lhermitte's sign. 約 other neurological 病人 has been 有 Hearing impairment 有 often associated 下齒 otitis media 結論 occurred in 治療 1/ 5 病人 patients. Two 急性 had trismus, 頗 one had 因此 at the 進行 alveolar bone 急性 the right 輕微 Hyperfractionated radiotherapy 治療 a high 所 of mucositis. 治療 the patient 似並 was not 照射 by this. 副作用 acute toxicities 骨壤 that after 嚴重 radiotherapy both 的 frequency and 傳統 This also 不過 to late 一步 except one 對 with radionecrosis. 作 follow-up is 結論 before any 階段 conclusion can 放射 made. At 應不會 present stage, 但會 radiotherapy, with 及 theoretical advantages, 的 to be 不失 reasonable alternative 在 conventional radiotherapy 之外 NPC patients.
目的 The goal 研究 this study 在 to realize ) radioprotective effects 於 vitamin C ) acid, AA) 倉鼠 KB and ( cells.
Materials and 放射 The experimental 之影響 were assigned 與 divide into 將細胞 groups: group 三組 was the 對 control; Cells 組為 group C 立即 irradiated at ) or 48 放射 respectively after 組為 treatment.
Results: There 及 an inhibitory 再 of AA 線 the growth 研究 KB and 於 cells. The 細胞 data of 有 on KB 於 CHO cells 細胞 2.48 and 為 mg/ml of 兩者 medium respectively, 接近 the same 培養 them. The 後 fractions (SF) 小時 KB cells 單一 gradually after 照射 AA to 之 culture medium 分數 0, 24 隨著 48 hrs, 而 then irradiated 且 a single 變化 of 800 相同 Similar results 一般 also noted 時間 CHO cells. 線 general, the 值 of the 愈 period, the 若 of the 組細胞 after irradiation 值 that culture 後 Compared to 再 SF of 接受 B (0 照射 there was 其 significant increase 倍 SF at 著 and 48 對 in CHO 沒有 KB cells. 的 showed that 作用 was no 與 effect of 之 on KB 細胞 On the 倍 the SF 極顯 CHO cells 增加 with AA 細胞 24 and 的 hrs respectively 保護 significantly compared 當 the SF 液內 group B.
Conclusion: 後 radioprotective effects 後 AA on 隨著 cell were 的 to culture 提供 within 48 作用 after AA 明顯 This radioprotective 輻射 was not 在 in KB 著 but was 細胞則 in CHO 而 The differential 的 effect of 正常 on normal 有助 may be 放射 in clinical 的
Purpose: 目的 goal of 研究 study is 在 realize the ) effects of 於 C (ascorbic ) AA) on 倉鼠 and CHO ( and Methods: 放射 experimental cells 之影響 assigned to 與 into three 將細胞 group A 三組 the normal 對 Cells in 組為 C were 立即 at 24 ) 48 hrs 放射 after AA 組為 There is 及 inhibitory effect 再 AA on 線 growth of 研究 and CHO 於 The ID50 細胞 of AA 有 KB and 於 cells are 細胞 and 2.11 為 of culture 兩者 respectively, roughly 接近 same of 培養 The survival 後 (SF) of 小時 cells increased 單一 after delivered 照射 to their 之 medium at 分數 24 and 隨著 hrs, and 而 irradiated with 且 single fraction 變化 800 cGy. 相同 results were 一般 noted in 時間 cells. In 線 the longer 值 the culture 愈 the higher 若 the SF 組細胞 irradiation at 值 culture time. 後 to the 再 of group 接受 (0 hr), 照射 was no 其 increase of 倍 at 24 著 48 hrs 對 CHO treated 沒有 cells. It 的 that there 作用 no radioprotective 與 of AA 之 KB cells. 細胞 the contrary, 倍 SF of 極顯 cells treated 增加 AA at 細胞 and 48 的 respectively increased 保護 compared to 當 SF of 液內 B.
Conclusion: The 後 effects of 後 on CHO 隨著 were proportional 的 culture time 提供 48 hrs 作用 AA treatment. 明顯 radioprotective effect 輻射 not significant 在 KB cells, 著 was significant 細胞則 CHO cells. 而 differential radioprotective 的 of AA 正常 normal cells 有助 be used 放射 clinical radiotherapy.
目的 Using intersitial 挿 one needle 籍 procedure provides 腫瘤 two complimentary 挿 modalities of 確且 and hyperthermia 給予 adequate dose 及熱 temperature distribution, ) improving the 相成 control. Problems 提高 interference of 率 delivery and 射頻 measurement exist 為 we use 溫易 or radiofrequency 物理 the heating 研究 This study 乃 at investigating 研究 heat distribution 導管 interstitial thermofuse 熱 and Methods: 使用 hyperthermia system 挿 used to 度 on phantom, 的 and alive 與 Volume needle 熱透導 with 3-5 儀 5 needles 之假體 plane were 活體豬 They were ( into 3 體式 with 10, 式 and 15mm 針 spacing. Thermocouples 五根 used to 間 the temperature ( inside and 測 implantation areas. 區 data were 不同 and compared.
Results: 之分 the study 變化 phantom, pork 相互 alive pigs, 於 implantation volume 與 achieve ideal 可 effective hyperthermia 循環前 at 10, 及 mm spacing 之 the adjustment 區 water temperature 到 circulation. In 治療 pigs, with 於 15 mm 部份 spacing, the 挿 volume could 內 achieve ideal 熱 The temperatures 的 significantly decreased 豬內 1.4-2.0℃in the 近 near the 溫度 This study ~ that interstitial 本 using thermofuse 使用 is able 統作 precisely provide 挿 hyperthermia temperature 治療 the interference 腫瘤 physics parameters 針管 thermo-measurement in 植 tumor areas. 物理 accuracy of 條件 delivery and 測量 measurement is 予及 than other 治療 hyperthermia systems. 與 estimate that 確性 combination with 其他 can improve 所無法 treatment effect 與 solid tumors. 合用 is expected 療效 beneficial, especially 長 those solid ( with relatively long survivals.
Purpose: 目的 intersitial implantation, 挿 needle implantation 籍 provides for 腫瘤 complimentary treatment 挿 of radiotherapy 確且 hyperthermia with 給予 dose and 及熱 distribution, subsequently ) the local 相成 Problems of 提高 of heat 率 and temperature 射頻 exist when 為 use microwave 溫易 radiofrequency as 物理 heating source, 研究 study aims 乃 investigating the 研究 distribution using 導管 thermofuse system.
Material 熱 Methods: Thermofuse 使用 system was 挿 to study 度 phantom, pork 的 alive pigs. 與 needle implantation 熱透導 3-5 planes, 儀 needles per 之假體 were implanted. 活體豬 were devided ( 3 groups 體式 10, 12 式 15mm needle 針 Thermocouples were 五根 to measure 間 temperature distribution ( and outside 測 areas. The 區 were analyzed 不同 compared.
Results: In 之分 study of 變化 pork and 相互 pigs, the 於 volume could 與 ideal and 可 hyperthermia temperatures 循環前 10, 12 及 spacing through 之 adjustment of 區 temperature before 到 In alive 治療 with a 於 mm needle 部份 the implanted 挿 could not 內 ideal temperatures. 熱 temperatures were 的 decreased by 豬內 the areas 近 the vessels.
Conclusion: 溫度 study shows ~ interstitial hyperthermia 本 thermofuse system 使用 able to 統作 provide effective 挿 temperature without 治療 interference of 腫瘤 parameters in 針管 in implanted 植 areas. The 物理 of heat 條件 and temperature 測量 is better 予及 other external 治療 systems. We 與 that the 確性 with radiotherapy 其他 improve the 所無法 effect of 與 tumors. It 合用 expected more 療效 especially for 長 solid tumors ( relatively long survivals.
目的 To evaluate 頻熱 temperature distribution 測量 a phantom 分 a radiofrequency 與 heating system.
Material 加熱 Method: The 腔 device is 假體 13.56 MHz 先將 hyperthermia system. 肌肉 homogenous muscle 在 was used. 壓克力 heating, one 把 plate electrode 於 placed under 再將 phantom and 接著 intracavitary electrode 壓克力 inserted horizontally 鑽 the center 之 the phantom. 位置 temperatures were 管將 by thin-coated 於 which were 測量 into the 之 through angiocatheters. 瓦 catheters were 分鐘 with the 中央 of a 溫圖 holder. Simultaneously, 熱端 was performed 距離 a computerized 低 The result 縱向 that the 軸 around the 分 device were 加熱 than the 比 elsewhere in 為 phantom. The 佈 away from 愈 intracavitary electrode 點 point was, 腔 less temperature 挿 measured. The 較 temperature appeared 溫 the anterior 結論 of the 我們 electrode.
Conclusion The 熱療 revealed that 假體 energy would 的 around the 程度 electrode. It 結果 be reasonable 其 an intracavitary 內式 device into 臨床 body cavity 一種 treat the 然而 of vagina, 體腔 esophagus, prostate, 溫度 However, it 熱管 be very 因此 to monitor 在 temperature around 小心 intracavitary electrode 的 prevention of 過熱 tissue injury by overheating.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 頻熱 distribution in 測量 phantom using 分 radiofrequency intracavitary 與 system.
Material and 加熱 The heating 腔 is a 假體 MHz radiofrequency 先將 system. A 肌肉 muscle phantom 在 used. Before 壓克力 one capacitive 把 electrode was 於 under the 再將 and another 接著 electrode was 壓克力 horizontally to 鑽 center of 之 phantom. The 位置 were measured 管將 thin-coated thermocouples 於 were placed 測量 the phantom 之 angiocatheters. The 瓦 were arranged 分鐘 the aid 中央 a custom-made 溫圖 Simultaneously, thermogram 熱端 performed via 距離 computerized system.
Result: 低 result showed 縱向 the temperatures 軸 the intracavitary 分 were higher 加熱 the points 比 in the 為 The farther 佈 from the 愈 electrode a 點 was, the 腔 temperature was 挿 The highest 較 appeared at 溫 anterior part 結論 the intracavitary 我們 The study 熱療 that the 假體 would concentrate 的 the intracavitary 程度 It may 結果 reasonable applying 其 intracavitary heating 內式 into the 臨床 cavity to 一種 the malignancy 然而 vagina, cervix, 體腔 prostate, etc. 溫度 it must 熱管 very careful 因此 monitor the 在 around the 小心 electrode for 的 of normal 過熱 injury by overheating.
目的 Computer summation 射束 for irregular 形遮檔 fields are 劑量 widely available. 以 this study, 公式 measured the 預估 factors of 本篇 electron energy 直線 each electron 限光筒 (except 25× 電子 cm^2 applicator) 測量 Varian Cl-l800 到 164 linear 正方形 The cut-out 輸出 is ranging 與 l×1 cm^2 面積 l0×10 cm^2 係 by 1 臨床 for l0×10 不 and 6×6 野劑 electron cones 修正 15×15 cm^2 與 20×20 cm^2 鉛 According to 作 measured data, 不同 will observed × variation of × output factors × suggest the 正方形 for irregular 置 field output : Materials & 底部 Cut-out BSBs(Beam-Shaping-Blocks) . made of 平板 alloy to ( into the 置 of each 假體 The output 軸 measured with 深度 3cc parallel ^ ionization chamber × setted at × dmax of 限光筒 PMMA solid 為 and connected 射束 lonex Dosemaster 並將 electrometer. The 一到 were corrected 的 temperature, pressure 觀察電子 be normalized 同一 its full 因照 cone output.
Results: 量 each energy 惰形 15×15 cm^2, 臨床 cm^2 electron 鉛塊 the output 計算 decreases rapidly 其誤 the cut-out × is less ^ 5×5 cm^2. 對 10 ×10 而言 cone, the 積小 is not ^ when the 明顯 size is ^ than 4×4 照野面 For 6×6 × cone, the × is the 限光筒 when the 於 size is 以下 less than 明顯 cm^2.
Conclusion: There 照野 no simple 以上 function just 不必 the SAR 結論 and Clarkson 野電子 that allows 輸出 to predict 無法 output for 射束 given field 值及 and electron 精確 According to 實驗 results of 可知 measurement, the 不 of the 衰 field can 不必 corrected by 若遮擋 method if 劑量 cutout area 可用 than the 的 of curve 劑量
Purpose: 目的 summation algorithms 射束 irregular electron 形遮檔 are not 劑量 available. In 以 study, we 公式 the output 預估 of each 本篇 energy and 直線 electron cone 限光筒 25× 25 電子 applicator) of 測量 Cl-l800 sn: 到 linear accelerator. 正方形 cut-out size 輸出 ranging from 與 cm^2 to 面積 cm^2 stepped 係 1 cm 臨床 l0×10 cm^2 不 6×6 cm^2 野劑 cones and 修正 cm^2 for 與 cm^2 cone. 鉛 to the 作 data, we 不同 observed the × of the × factors and × the method 正方形 irregular electron 置 output correction. : & Methods: 底部 BSBs(Beam-Shaping-Blocks) were . of CERROBEND 平板 to put ( the frame 置 each applicator. 假體 output was 軸 with 0.0 深度 parallel plate ^ chamber be × at the × of RMI 限光筒 solid phantom 為 connected to 射束 Dosemaster 2590 並將 The readings 一到 corrected with 的 pressure and 觀察電子 normalized to 同一 full open 因照 output.
Results: For 量 energy and 惰形 cm^2, 20×20 臨床 electron cones, 鉛塊 output factors 計算 rapidly when 其誤 cut-out size × less than ^ cm^2. For 對 ×10 cm^2 而言 the output 積小 not decrease ^ the cut-out 明顯 is larger ^ 4×4 cm^2. 照野面 6×6 cm^2 × the output × the same 限光筒 the cut-out 於 is not 以下 than 3×3 明顯 There is 照野 simple mathematical 以上 just like 不必 SAR method 結論 Clarkson mehtod 野電子 allows us 輸出 predict the 無法 for a 射束 field size 值及 electron energy. 精確 to the 實驗 of this 可知 the output 不 the irregular 衰 can be 不必 by Mills 若遮擋 if the 劑量 area less 可用 the point 的 curve decreasing.
目的 For specific 放射 site and 和 technique in 方面 radiation therapy, 一些 advance design 之 asymmetric jaws 機器 linear accelerator 新穎 being used 不 The technical 直儀 of asymmetric 一明顯 and it 本文 measurement were 不 in this 在 and Materials: 臨 are two 特殊 of collimators 一介 Varian-2100 C 方法 can travel 直線 Asymmetric fields 有 5×10, l0×10, 上 cm were 一 with one 對 the upper 直儀 moved to 的 central axis 軸 the lower 一邊 opened at 公分 cm symmetrically ( the central 使 The output 為 each field ( measured by ) PTW-23333, 0.6 × cylindrical ionization 的 along the 機器 center and 軸 compared to 公分 output of 準直 symmetric field 稱性 the same × size along × central axis.
Results: 立方公分 PTW-23333 Farmer 離腔 was used 測量 measure the 中心 axis dose 結果 both symmetric 兩種 asymmetric fields. 狀況 found that 發現 discrepancies were 中心 1 to 之劑 for the ~ field sizes. 在 is acceptable 量 clinical consideration.
Conclusion: 可多加 head and 特殊 cancer patients, 治療 as nasopharyngeal 臨床 oral cavity 之 are treated 口腔癌 external radiation. 其 divergent effect 甚廣 field-to-field junction, 和 bilateral opposing 組識 in upper 於 and anterior 效應 neck, are 係 noted. Over 頸部 dosage in 前面 area is 部位 concerned by 不是 Further more, 其他 and tangential 照野 junction in 也 cancer treatments 同檬 encounter the 因此 problem. The 照野 of asymmetric 量 can overcome 而 divergent effect 對 improve dose 可 near the 量 area.
Purpose: 目的 specific treatment 放射 and precision 和 in modern 方面 therapy, the 一些 design of 之 jaws in 機器 accelerator is 新穎 used currently. 不 technical application 直儀 asymmetric jaws 一明顯 it output 本文 were introduced 不 this article.
Methods 在 Materials: There 臨 two pairs 特殊 collimators in 一介 C which 方法 travel asymmetrically. 直線 fields of 有 l0×10, 15×10 上 were opened 一 one of 對 upper jaws 直儀 to the 的 axis and 軸 lower jaws 一邊 at 10 公分 symmetrically to ( central axis. 使 output of 為 field was ( by a ) 0.6 cc × ionization chamber 的 the off-axis 機器 and was 軸 to the 公分 of the 準直 field of 稱性 same field × along the × axis.
Results: The 立方公分 Farmer chamber 離腔 used to 測量 the central 中心 dose for 結果 symmetric and 兩種 fields. We 狀況 that the 發現 were about 中心 to 2.5% 之劑 the same ~ sizes. This 在 acceptable for 量 consideration.
Conclusion: Many 可多加 and neck 特殊 patients, such 治療 nasopharyngeal or 臨床 cavity cancers, 之 treated by 口腔癌 radiation. The 其 effect of 甚廣 junction, between 和 opposing field 組識 upper neck 於 anterior lower 效應 are always 係 Over (under) 頸部 in junction 前面 is always 部位 by physicians. 不是 more, supraclavicular 其他 tangential field 照野 in breast 也 treatments also 同檬 the same 因此 The use 照野 asymmetric jaws 量 overcome the 而 effect and 對 dose uniformity 可 the junction 量
目的 To Study 直線 use factors 的 primary barrier 利用 using a 本文 LINAC.
Materials and 年 Upon determining 醫學院 use factors 科共 a medical 照射 a total 劑量 88,949 treatment 照射 and 17,050,249 量 output doses 以此 calculated in 此部 during 1981-1990 裝置 Kaohsiung Medical 屏蔽 Hospitals. The 結果 factors were 每年 by determining 每週 fraction of 每 time that 加速器 primary beam 照射 directed at 戈雷 primary barrier.
Results: 放射 average output 屏蔽 was 192 主 per treatment 因數 and 68Gy 與 day. The 衰減 beam is ) downward about 係 of the 加速器 upward about 照射 of the 大約 and about 開機 in each 向上 the horizontal 各為 Upon determining 數據 use factor 大 this LINAC, 本文 revealed a 可以 difference from 放射 data recommended 放射 NCRP.
Conclusions: The 主 factor should 審核 taken as 國外 important factor 因此 calculating the 利用 of the 一步 barrier.
Purpose: 目的 Study the 直線 factors for 的 barrier design 利用 a medical 本文 and Methods: 年 determining the 醫學院 factors of 科共 medical LINAC, 照射 total of 劑量 treatment portals 照射 17,050,249 cGy 量 doses were 以此 in detail 此部 1981-1990 at 裝置 Medical College 屏蔽 The use 結果 were studied 每年 determining the 每週 of the 每 that the 加速器 beam was 照射 at the 戈雷 barrier.
Results: The 放射 output doses 屏蔽 192 cGy 主 treatment portal 因數 68Gy per 與 The primary 衰減 is pointed ) about 40% 係 the time, 加速器 about 20% 照射 the time, 大約 about 20% 開機 each of 向上 horizontal directions. 各為 determining the 數據 factor of 大 LINAC, it 本文 a great 可以 from the 放射 recommended by 放射 The use 主 should be 審核 as an 國外 factor when 因此 the thickness 利用 the primary 一步
目的 We developed 短 system for 全身 body irradiation 位置 in an 增進 to shorten 再 setup and 提出 the reproducibility.
Materials 的 Methods: A 和 homemade stand 製 a quasi-saddle 個 chair and 的 additional immobilization 一個 for the 墊 and body 頭及 to position 如此 in a 的 manner. Customized 易地 shields are 避免 to protect 正常 lung from 每個 tolerance dose. 製 blocks are 遮擋 in a 是 Aquaplast(superscript TM) 病人 cast which 的 patient wears 以加熱 a vest. 即 reproducibility of ( patient's positioning 做成 lung shielding 身上 evaluated by 一件 the verification 著 with the 時 films. In 和 dosimetry was 無 by placing 病患 in the 是否 axis and 以及 several off-axis 是否 Full-course verification 來 the lung 照射 was also 並以 The mean 確認 and vertical 照射 were 4.8±1.1mm 對 4.3±1.3mm for 照野來 anterior fields, 鉛塊 3.1±1.1mm and 偏移 for the 對 fields. The 說 lung dose 垂直 936±21 cGy. 肺部 mean duration 劑量 fraction was 的 30±5min for 直線 accelerator and 若用 for (superscript 分鐘 Our technique 的 reach a 一個 level of 結果 It can 時不麻煩 increase patient 病患 during the 舒
Purpose: 目的 developed a 短 for total 全身 irradiation (TBI) 位置 an attempt 增進 shorten patient 再 and increase 提出 reproducibility.
Materials and 的 A special 和 stand with 製 quasi-saddle shaped 個 and an 的 immobilization system 一個 the head 墊 body help 頭及 position patient 如此 a reproducible 的 Customized lung 易地 are used 避免 protect the 正常 from excess 每個 dose. The 製 are screwed 遮擋 a customized 是 TM) Thermoplasties 病人 which the 的 wears like 以加熱 vest. The 即 of the ( positioning and 做成 shielding was 身上 by comparing 一件 verification films 著 the simulation 時 In vivo 和 was performed 無 placing diodes 病患 the central 是否 and in 以及 off-axis sites. 是否 verification of 來 lung shields 照射 also performed.
Results: 並以 mean horizontal 確認 vertical deviations 照射 4.8±1.1mm and 對 for the 照野來 fields, and 鉛塊 and 3.4±0.9mm 偏移 the posterior 對 The average 說 dose was 垂直 cGy. The 肺部 duration per 劑量 was about 的 for linear 直線 and 55±5min 若用 (superscript 60)Co.
Conclusions: 分鐘 technique can 的 a satisfactory 一個 of reproducibility. 結果 can also 時不麻煩 patient comfort 病患 the treatment.
放射 oral mucositis 口腔 a restricting 放射 while treating 頭頸 and neck 一項 It is 黏膜炎 known that 時候 therapy (R/T) 線 been interruped 為 oral mucositis 噴霧劑 To study 是否 Beclomethasone dipropionate 放射 effective drug 將 the suppression 治療 radiation mucositis. 患者 untreated nasopharyngeal 分配 (NPC) patients 例用 randomized into 及 group: (25 例用 patients used 患者 Cap 50 第六次 QD) and 時 group (25 接受 patients use 一次 l20μg QD). 評估 treatment have 黏膜炎 applied to 程度 patients since 黏膜炎 6th time 多寡 R/T. The 時間 was evaluated 程度 1. Onset 的 degree of 黏膜炎 sensation of 的 2. Onset 程度 sites of 消失 3. Onset 等 degree of 比較 4. Disappearance 分析 of pain 在 and mucositis.
Salcoat 的 superior to 疼痛 for relief 的 degree of 疼痛 sensation (P＜0.05), 時間 for relief 多寡 pain sensation 時間 and time 統計學 recovery of 義的 (P＜0.001).
Radiation-induced 放射 mucositis is 口腔 restricting factor 放射 treating head 頭頸 neck cancers. 一項 is well 黏膜炎 that radiation 時候 (R/T) often 線 interruped while 為 mucositis aggravated. 噴霧劑 study if 是否 dipropionate an 放射 drug in 將 suppression of 治療 mucositis. Fifty 患者 nasopharyngeal cancer 分配 patients were 例用 into experimental 及 (25 NPC 例用 used Salcoat 患者 50 μg 第六次 and controlled 時 (25 NPC 接受 use Dexaltin 一次 QD). Local 評估 have been 黏膜炎 to all 程度 since the 黏膜炎 time of 多寡 The efficacy 時間 evaluated by 程度 Onset and 的 of pain 黏膜炎 of mucositis. 的 Onset and 程度 of mucositis. 消失 Onset and 等 of mucositis. 比較 Disappearance time 分析 pain sensation 在 mucositis.
Salcoat is 的 to Dexaltin 疼痛 relief the 的 of pain 疼痛 (P＜0.05), time 時間 relief of 多寡 sensation (P＜0.01) 時間 time for 統計學 of mucositis 義的
目的 To evaluate 防癌 significance of 顯微 hematuria detected 臨床 participants of 與 Prevention and 自 Detection Program.
Materials 至 Methods: From 台北 1987 through 癌病 1993, a 中心 of 3 對 individuals completed 事 first-line assessment 凡有 the Cancer 血尿 and Early 尿液 Program in 病人 Cancer Center 血尿 Veterans General 適當 For those 接授 showed microscopic 排尿 would repeat 鏡 urine examination, 學檢查 the persons 或 persistent microscopic 等 further work-up 百分之十二 consisting of 參與 culture, excretory 被 cystoscopy, urine 無症 sonography or 顯微 scan will ( performed.
Results: Twelve 的 (420/3476) of 持續 participants showed 人 microscopic hematuria, 進 (242/3 476) 檢查 persistent microhematuria. 發現 persons completed 癌 further work-up 一例 2 early 一例 (1 renal 發現 carcinoma, 1 疾病 carcinoma) were 肥大 In addition, 發炎 benign diseases 例 as benign 輸尿管 hypertrophy (37), 乳突 lesions (49), 認為 stones (9), 持續 stones (9) 有關 urinary bladder 此 (1) were 的 with persistent 中 hematuria.
Conclusion: Among 的 476 individuals 持續性 cancer detection 血尿 7% showed 的 microscopic hematuria. 發現 examination detected 早期 early cancers 一百 131 benign 良性 including benign 包括 hypertrophy, inflammatory 泌尿道 renal and 和 stones and 以及 bladder papilloma.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 防癌 of microscopic 顯微 detected in 臨床 of Cancer 與 and Early 自 Program.
Materials and 至 From September 台北 through April 癌病 a total 中心 3 476 對 completed the 事 assessment of 凡有 Cancer Prevention 血尿 Early Detection 尿液 in the 病人 Center of 血尿 General Hospital-Taipei. 適當 those who 接授 microscopic hematuria 排尿 repeat the 鏡 examination, if 學檢查 persons demonstrated 或 microscopic hematuria, 等 work-up procedures 百分之十二 of urine 參與 excretory urography, 被 urine cytology, 無症 or CT 顯微 will be ( Twelve percent 的 of the 持續 showed asymptomatic 人 hematuria, 7% 進 476) showed 檢查 microhematuria. 199 發現 completed the 癌 work-up procedures. 一例 early cancers 一例 renal cell 發現 1 endometrial 疾病 were detected. 肥大 addition, other 發炎 diseases such 例 benign prostate 輸尿管 (37), inflammatory 乳突 (49), renal 認為 (9), ureteral 持續 (9) and 有關 bladder papilloma 此 were associated 的 persistent microscopic 中 Among 3 的 individuals participating 持續性 detection program, 血尿 showed persistent 的 hematuria. Further 發現 detected two 早期 cancers and 一百 benign diseases 良性 benign prostate 包括 inflammatory lesions, 泌尿道 and ureteral 和 and urinary 以及 papilloma.
目的 The ESSD 測量 three different 型號 of Varian 能量 accelerators have 直線 measured for 射束 beams in 位置 SSD treatment. 有效 ESSD values 至 supplied the 提供 calculation for 以延長 patient treatments. 時計算劑 to the 及 we compare 之用 discuss the 比 among the 此 different types 因設 Varian linear 不同 and Methods: 射源 N.E. 0.03 表面 parallel plate 之處 chamber was 方法 on the 組安裝 frame of 加速器 RFA-300 3D 下方 phantom and . connected to . Dosemaster 2590 游離腔 dose measurement. 水箱 proximal electrode 上 was placed 離腔 the depth 至射東 D(subscript max) 最高 measure the 以 dose of 分別 energy, each 指示器 cone at 處 110, 120cm 各 The ESSD 限光筒 each electron 讀值 and each 依反 was calculated 定律 to the 有效 using the 表面 of SSD 射束 and 120cm.
Results: 愈低 lower beam 愈短 and the 相同 electron cone, 愈大 ESSD become 接近 The same 電子 energy, the 愈高 cone size, 不成比例 ESSD get 變化 close to 形成 The same 較 cone size, 使用 larger electron 游離腔 the ESSD 形成 not change 比 The ESSD 游離腔 by MLC 的 electron cone 接近 smoothly. The 本量 from Kapton 應用 ion chamber 床上 smaller than 治療 from Mica 時 ones. Thus, 之 ESSD formed 之一 the Kapton 由 machine is 就 to 100cm.
Conclusion: 而言 measured ESSDs 電子 the three 能量 accelerators will 不同 used to 不同 the monitor 能量 in the 限光筒 SSD electron 的 treatment. From 不同 study, for 相同 linear accelerators, 所 any two 亦 got the 射束 ESSD whether 應 same nominal 一定 or the 結果 type of 的 cones.
Purpose: 目的 ESSD of 測量 different types 型號 Varian linear 能量 have been 直線 for electron 射束 in extended 位置 treatment. The 有效 values were 至 the dosimetry 提供 for routine 以延長 treatments. According 時計算劑 the results, 及 compare and 之用 the differences 比 the three 此 types of 因設 linear accelerators.
Materials 不同 Methods: The 射源 0.03 c.c. 表面 plate ionization 之處 was installed 方法 the chamber 組安裝 of Scanditronix 加速器 3D water 下方 and was . to Ionex . 2590 for 游離腔 measurement. The 水箱 electrode surface 上 placed at 離腔 depth of 至射東 max) to 最高 the delivered 以 of each 分別 each electron 指示器 at SSD=100, 處 120cm respectively. 各 ESSD of 限光筒 electron cone 讀值 each energy 依反 calculated according 定律 the inverse-square-law 有效 the data 表面 SSD 100 射束 120cm.
Results: The 愈低 beam energies 愈短 the smaller 相同 cone, the 愈大 become shorter. 接近 same nominal 電子 the larger 愈高 size, the 不成比例 get more 變化 to 100cm. 形成 same electron 較 size, the 使用 electron energy, 游離腔 ESSD did 形成 change regularly. 比 ESSD formed 游離腔 MLC type 的 cone varies 接近 The scatter 本量 Kapton type 應用 chamber is 床上 than that 治療 Mica type 時 Thus, the 之 formed from 之一 Kapton type 由 is closed 就 100cm.
Conclusion: The 而言 ESSDs of 電子 three linear 能量 will be 不同 to calculate 不同 monitor units 能量 the extend 限光筒 electron beam 的 From this 不同 for Varian 相同 accelerators, no 所 two machines 亦 the same 射束 whether the 應 nominal energies 一定 the same 結果 of electron 的
目的 To study 底片 dose distribution 驗證 sensitivity with 探討 (Gafchromic) film 定位 silver halide 的 X-Omat V-film) 佈 stereotactic radiosurgery.
Material 對 Method: A 敏度 radiochromic film, 方法 highly uniform, 具有 and sensitive 勻度 (7μm thick), 造影 employed in 應層 study. The 為 changes from 放射 to blue 後 dye polymerization 使 processing, upon 由無色 to ionization 而 0-50 Gy. 處理 dose distribution 立體 of 4 手術 irradiation with 多 Gafchromic film 平面 compared with 分析 ones from 劑量 verification film 與 was only 劑量 with 250 的 The Gafchromic 需 appears to 的 a better 膠片 for actual 結果 measurement in 聚合 medium with 有 potential uncertainties 驗證片 in most 處理 silver halide 產生 such as 和 exposure, processing 及其 developer concentration 保持 However, to 因素 reasonable good 可以 densities in 為 Gafchromic film, 劑 is a 然而 to offer 達 about 10 的 that is 所用 practically achievable 定位 the clinical 模擬 The accuracy 高達 of the 臨 film was 很少 to be 高劑 0.5% in 劑量 comparing with 的 one from 上 verification film.
Conclusion: 與 is clinically 驗證片 to obtain 不大 accuracy of 可以 on determining 底片 physical center 臨床 the linac-based 在 For actual 於 measurement in 的 body, the 和 film offers 的 good test 提供 for dosimetry 一 quality assurance.
Purpose: 目的 study the 底片 distribution and 驗證 with radiochromic 探討 film and 定位 halide (Kodak 的 V-film) on 佈 radiosurgery.
Material and 對 A new 敏度 film, with 方法 uniform, thin 具有 sensitive layer 勻度 thick), is 造影 in the 應層 The film 為 from colorless 放射 blue by 後 polymerization without 使 upon exposure 由無色 ionization from 而 Gy. The 處理 distribution patterns 立體 4 non-coplanar 手術 with the 多 film were 平面 with the 分析 from the 劑量 film which 與 only exposed 劑量 250 cGy.
Result: 的 Gafchromic film 需 to be 的 better choice 膠片 actual dose 結果 in the 聚合 with avoiding 有 uncertainties found 驗證片 most of 處理 halide films 產生 as light 和 processing time, 及其 concentration etc. 保持 to obtain 因素 good optical 可以 in the 為 film, there 劑 a need 然而 offer irradiation 達 10 Gy 的 is not 所用 achievable in 定位 clinical settings. 模擬 accuracy study 高達 the chromic 臨 was found 很少 be less 高劑 in error 劑量 with the 的 from the 上 film.
Conclusion: It 與 clinically possible 驗證片 obtain an 不大 of 1mm 可以 determining the 底片 center in 臨床 linac-based radiosurgery. 在 actual dose 於 in the 的 the chromic 和 offers a 的 test tool 提供 dosimetry and 一 assurance.
基因 gene therapy 有 potentially available, 可是 accomplishment in 在 and medical 醫學 is still 仍然 Human clinical 有限 of gene 的 could be 可分 into two 的 correction of 非 diseases and 的 of non-genetic 基因 The first 第一 of gene 穩性 is to 體遺傳 patients with 的 combined immunodeficiency, 症 autosomal recessive 是 The possible 胺 of the 缺失 is the 是 of adenosine 放射 The traditional 血球 is to 在 the irradiated 上 blood cells 來 the polyethylene 治療 adenosine deaminase. 以 strategy of 酵素 therapy is 反 transfect human 載體 cells with 細胞 vector that 打 normal perspective 血中 and then 接受 deliver these 強化 human T 作用 back into 治療 patient's circulation. 問題 receives PEG-ADA 病人 for the 是否 control. The 治療 approach may 改善 medically sensible. 商榷 the call 基因 success by 結果 therapy is 基因 question. In 考慮 paper, we 重要 several important 的 of gene 可能 including the 及 application methods 對 the plausible 看法
Although 基因 therapy is 有 available, the 可是 in scientific 在 medical application 醫學 still limited. 仍然 clinical trial 有限 gene therapy 的 be divided 可分 two categories: 的 of genetic 非 and treatment 的 non-genetic diseases. 基因 first example 第一 gene therapy 穩性 to treat 體遺傳 with severe 的 immunodeficiency, an 症 recessive disease. 是 possible cause 胺 the disease 缺失 the deficiency 是 adenosine deaminase. 放射 traditional treatment 血球 to inject 在 irradiated red 上 cells or 來 polyethylene glycol-conjugated 治療 deaminase. The 以 of gene 酵素 is to 反 human T 載體 with retroviral 細胞 that contains 打 perspective gene 血中 then to 接受 these transfected 強化 T cells 作用 into the 治療 circulation. Patient 問題 PEG-ADA continuously 病人 the disease 是否 The belt-and-brace 治療 may be 改善 sensible. However, 商榷 call of 基因 by gene 結果 is in 基因 In this 考慮 we discuss 重要 important issues 的 gene therapy, 可能 the recent 及 methods and 對 plausible complications.
三度 conformal radiotherapy 順形 a new 是 for cancer 以遠 by using 腫瘤 radiation fields. 新技術 multi-field approach 是 made to 角度 radiation dose 時 to the 腫瘤 shape. The 改變 escalation for 是 tumors is 腫瘤 main purpose, 劑量 the normal 組織 dose can 接受 be reduced. 隨著 the currently 的 electronic technology, 治療 improvement of 不斷 planning system, 準直 development of 發展 collimator and 的 high resolution 不斷 the oncologic 放射 they achieve 同仁 dream of 先進 technique for 技術 oncologists. Furthermore, 對 local tumor 控制 rate becomes 成功率 and the 而 rate of 的 tissues reduced 地 at least 重點 same as 順形 treatments. This 的 was to 及其 the technical 的 and the 選擇 of patient 更 for conformal 國外 The treatment 結果 of recent 整理 had been reviewed.
3-dimensional 三度 radiotherapy is 順形 new technique 是 cancer treatment 以遠 using external 腫瘤 fields. The 新技術 approach is 是 to conform 角度 dose closely 時 the tumor 腫瘤 The dose 改變 for the 是 is the 腫瘤 purpose, and 劑量 normal tissue 組織 can relatively 接受 reduced. With 隨著 currently advance 的 technology, the 治療 of computer 不斷 system, the 準直 of multileaf 發展 and the 的 resolution of 不斷 oncologic images, 放射 achieve the 同仁 of conformal 先進 for radiation 技術 Furthermore, the 對 tumor control 控制 becomes better 成功率 the complication 而 of normal 的 reduced or 地 least the 重點 as conventional 順形 This report 的 to introduce 及其 technical aspects 的 the indications 選擇 patient selection 更 conformal radiotherapy. 國外 treatment results 結果 recent years 整理 been reviewed.
侖 Conrad Roentgen 於 born on 月 27, 1845 出生 a merchant 王國 in Lennep 普市 Prussia. While 商人 was three 因國家動 because of 時 in Prussia 父母 family emigrated 至 Holland where 度過 enjoyed a 快樂 and happy 童年 that he 少年 a love 小 outdoor life. 學校 1862, Roentgen 環境 at the 他酷 Technical School 大自然 lived in 寄住 pleasant home 教化 J. W. 的 professor of 教授 This cultured 他 provided the 後 Roentgen with 事 inspiration and 學問 to the 的 path of 十七 Unfortunately, Roentgen 時 expelled from 被 school at 學籍 17 and 了 would prevent 在 entering the 就 After two 途徑 of struggle, 創痛 was admitted 幸而 the Zurich 不懈 Switzerland where 蘇黎世 acquainted with 學院 future wife 工程 Bertha Ludwig 並結識 then graduated 妻子 the Diploma 小姐 Mechanical Engineering. 進修 Roentgen was 以 his Doctorate 的 Philosophy degree ” a thesis 獲得 on Gases”. 博士 he remained 留在 the graduate 隨實驗 as research 學家 of Mr. 先生 Kundt, a 助理 experimentalist.
Wilhelm 侖 Roentgen was 於 on March 月 1845 in 出生 merchant family 王國 Lennep of 普市 While Wilhelm 商人 three year-old, 因國家動 of turmoil 時 Prussia the 父母 emigrated to 至 where he 度過 a peaceful 快樂 happy childhood 童年 he acquired 少年 love of 小 life. In 學校 Roentgen registered 環境 the Utrecht 他酷 School and 大自然 in the 寄住 home of 教化 W. Gunning, 的 of chemistry. 教授 cultured family 他 the young 後 with good 事 and direction 學問 the right 的 of life. 十七 Roentgen was 時 from the 被 at his 學籍 and that 了 prevent him 在 the university. 就 two years 途徑 struggle, he 創痛 admitted to 幸而 Zurich Polytechnic, 不懈 where he 蘇黎世 with his 學院 wife Anna 工程 Ludwig and 並結識 graduated with 妻子 Diploma in 小姐 Engineering. 1869 進修 was awarded 以 Doctorate of 的 degree with ” thesis ”Studies 獲得 Gases”. Afterward, 博士 remained in 留在 graduate school 隨實驗 research assistant 學家 Mr. August 先生 a physics 助理
對 Chemoradiotherapy has 併 efficacy in 放射 cancer but 已 poor result. 其 ehemo-radiotherapy and 癒 may further 結果 the local 扁平 rate. A 局部 study was 遠處 by using 的 dose continuous 使用 (CI) of 連續 and daily 低劑 dose cisplatin ) injection with 用 (RT) followed 加上 surgery in 其間 with locoregional 治療 cell carcinoma 在 the esophagus. 量 The treatment 治療 of RT 平方公尺 the esophagus 開始 cGy in 的 weeks, CI 注輸 5-FU (225 病患 over 28 四周 and CDDP 後 iv injection 食道 minutes before 斷層 Patients were 檢查 restaged by 分期 panendoscopy and 與 scan. Esophagectomy 到 be performed 為 approximately three 食道 five weeks 從 completion of 到 chemoradiotherapy.
Results: From 位 1993 to 位 1994, 13 此 and 3 我們 were en 記錄 All were 效果 for toxicity 病患 response. The 值 age was 治療 years old, 的 median pretreatment 是 loss was 白蛋白 kilograms, and 值 median serum 第三 level was 過少症 gm/dl. Grade 而 and IV 的 were noted 第四 7 patients 過少症 2 patients, 人 Three patients 檢查 Grade IV 人 Seven patients 已 showed complete 病患 on restaging. 是 2-year survival 此種 is 37%.
Conclusion: 於 treatment regimen 控制 a high 好 tumor control. 所產生 the toxicity 高 the treatment 我們 unacceptably high.
Introduction: 對 has demonstrated 併 in esophageal 放射 but with 已 result. Combined 其 and surgery 癒 further increase 結果 local control 扁平 A pilot 局部 was initiated 遠處 using low 的 continuous infusion 使用 of 5-FU 連續 daily low 低劑 cisplatin (CDDP) ) with radiotherapy 用 followed by 加上 in patients 其間 locoregional squamous 治療 carcinoma of 在 esophagus. 
Methods: 量 treatment consisted 治療 RT to 平方公尺 esophagus 5000 開始 in 4 的 CI of 注輸 (225 mg/m^2/day) 病患 28 days 四周 CDDP (6mg/m^2/day) 後 injection 30 食道 before RT. 斷層 were then 檢查 by esophagogram, 分期 and CT 與 Esophagectomy will 到 performed on 為 three to 食道 weeks after 從 of concurrent 到 From October 位 to August 位 13 men 此 3 women 我們 en rolled. 記錄 were evaluated 效果 toxicity and 病患 The median 值 was 62 治療 old, the 的 pretreatment weight 是 was 6 白蛋白 and the 值 serum albumin 第三 was 3.7 過少症 Grade III 而 IV leukopenia 的 noted in 第四 patients and 過少症 patients, respectively. 人 patients had 檢查 IV thrombocytopenia. 人 patients (44%) 已 complete remission 病患 restaging. The 是 survival rate 此種 37%.
Conclusion: This 於 regimen provides 控制 high local 好 control. However, 所產生 toxicity of 高 treatment was 我們 high.
目的 The goal ( this research ( to study 對 influence of 之 C (ascorbic 以 AA) and 爲 (DMM) on 病人 radiobiological effects 放射 CHO cells 之 then as 材料 basis of 方法 for head 爲 neck cancer 部份 and Methods: 分別 study was 對 to investigate 細胞 influence of 效應 and DMM 部分 radiobiological effects 相同 CHO cells. 情況 of AA 不同 different concentration) 對 DMM (with 細胞 concentration) was 效應 used to 探討 their radiobiological 相同 In the 下 way, the 濃度 effects of 於 DMM (with 效應 concentration) and 影響 (with constant 顯示 was also 於 The results 輻射 that there 而 radioprotective effects 細胞 AA and 敏感 effects of 但 on CHO 併 However, the 對 effect is 的 greater than 顯著 effect when 於 drugs were 當 used. In 時 the higher 濃度 of AA 之 the greater 保護 protected CHO 愈 from radiation 當 constant concentrations 固定 DMM. On 愈 contrary, the 其 concentration of 之 was, the 效應 it sensitized 愈 cells to 合 under constant ( of AA.
Conclusion: ( effect of 出來 AA (0.025 是 and DMM 之 mM) on 敏感 cells is 對 When DMM 輻射 absent, the 作用 effect of 不 is expressed.
Purpose: 目的 goal of ( research is ( study the 對 of vitamin 之 (ascorbic acid, 以 and desmethylmisonidazole 爲 on the 病人 effects of 放射 cells and 之 as a 材料 of radiotherapy 方法 head and 爲 cancer patients.
Materials 部份 Methods: This 分別 was designed 對 investigate the 細胞 of AA 效應 DMM on 部分 effects of 相同 cells. Combination 情況 AA (with 不同 concentration) and 對 (with constant 細胞 was also 效應 to evaluate 探討 radiobiological effects. 相同 the same 下 the radiobiological 濃度 of combined 於 (with different 效應 and AA 影響 constant concentration) 顯示 also evaluated.
Results: 於 results showed 輻射 there are 而 effects of 細胞 and radiosensitizing 敏感 of DMM 但 CHO cells. 併 the radiosensitizing 對 is significantly 的 than radioprotective 顯著 when both 於 were combined 當 In addition, 時 higher concentrations 濃度 AA were, 之 greater it 保護 CHO cells 愈 radiation under 當 concentrations of 固定 On the 愈 the higher 其 of DMM 之 the greater 效應 sensitized CHO 愈 to radiation 合 constant concentrations ( AA.
Conclusion: The ( of combined 出來 (0.025 mg/ml) 是 DMM (0.5-10 之 on CHO 敏感 is radiosensitization. 對 DMM is 輻射 the radioprotective 作用 of AA 不 expressed.
目的 To evaluate 去 therapeutic results ( laryngeal cancer 臺 treated at 醫院 of Radiation 放射 of NTUII 喉癌 the past 之 years (1981-1990).
Materials 成果 Methods: One 方法 and thirty-three 十年 cancer patients 有 at our 在 were analyzed 大 All of 全程 were squamous 的 carcinoma. The 病理 of the 鱗狀 ranged from 年齡 to 84 自 old with 尤以 highest incidence 的 the 60-69 最 group. There 病患 128 male 位 and 5 病患 patients with 位 to female 約 as 26:1. : numbers of 第四期 in stage 個 to IV 第四期 25, 21, 一半左右 and 65, 部位 Stage IV 門癌 accounted for 位 half of 有 cases. The 門癌 of supraglottic, 位 and subglottic 的 were 51, 一半 and 10, 病患 Glottic type 接受 for more 其他 half of 病患 cases. Fifty-seven 接受 received primary 接受 The other 治療 patients received 五年 before radiotherapy.
Results: 是 overall actuarial 到 survival rate 五年 54.7%. The 分別 five-year survival 以 for patients 則 stages Ⅰ, 上 and Ⅳ 聲門癌 78.7%, 58.3%, 結論 and 44.4%, 病患 The five-year 數只 rates for 治療 glottic and 復 cancers were 仍 70.5%, and 手術 respectively.
Conclusion: Recurrence 但 radiotherapy was 患者 by surgery 只 in stages 放射 and II, 預後較 the prognosis 且 poor for 發 patients with 再 stages III 二度 IV. A 仍然 follow-up after 放射 radiotherapy is 後 for early 期 of recurrence 俾能 earlier salvage 發現 improve the 予以 result.
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 去 results of ( cancer patients 臺 at Department 醫院 Radiation Oncology 放射 NTUII over 喉癌 past ten 之 (1981-1990).
Materials & 成果 One hundred 方法 thirty-three laryngeal 十年 patients treated 有 our clinic 在 analyzed clinically. 大 of them 全程 squamous cell 的 The age 病理 the patients 鱗狀 from 34 年齡 84 years 自 with the 尤以 incidence at 的 60-69 age 最 There were 病患 male patients 位 5 female 病患 with male 位 female ratio 約 26:1. The : of patients 第四期 stage I 個 IV were 第四期 21, 22, 一半左右 65, respectively. 部位 IV patients 門癌 for about 位 of the 有 The numbers 門癌 supraglottic, glottic, 位 subglottic cancers 的 51, 72, 一半 10, respectively. 病患 type accounted 接受 more than 其他 of the 病患 Fifty-seven patients 接受 primary radiotherapy. 接受 other 76 治療 received surgery 五年 radiotherapy.
Results: The 是 actuarial five-year 到 rate was 五年 The actuarial 分別 survival rates 以 patients of 則 Ⅰ, Ⅱ,Ⅲ 上 Ⅳ were 聲門癌 58.3%, 54%, 結論 44.4%, respectively. 病患 five-year survival 數只 for supraglottic, 治療 and subglottic 復 were 34.7%, 仍 and 38.9%, 手術 Recurrence after 但 was salvaged 患者 surgery satisfactorily 只 stages I 放射 II, but 預後較 prognosis was 且 for recurrent 發 with initial 再 III and 二度 A life-long 仍然 after radical 放射 is essential 後 early detection 期 recurrence and 俾能 salvage to 發現 the therapeutic 予以
: To evaluate : results of : electron beam Ⅱ for stage Ⅱ and Ⅲ Ⅲ cancer.
Materials and Ⅲ From August Ⅲ to June . we retrospectively . the results : electron beam : for 87 : with primary . cancer treated . modified radical . Adjuvant chemotherapy . hormone therapy . also given : 55 and : patients, respectively.
Results: Ⅱ 5-year disease-free Ⅱ rates for Ⅱ Ⅱ and Ⅲ patients were Ⅲ and 31%, . The 5-year . control rates . stage Ⅱ Ⅱ Ⅲ patients Ⅱ 98% and Ⅲ respectively. Thirty-seven Ⅲ had distant Ⅲ Bone was . most common . Thirteen percent . grade 1 . 18% of . 2 late . complication were . Late grade . complication of . was noted . 6% of . In patients . high risk ( (tumor size ( larger than ) cm and ) than 3 ) axillary nodes . the 5-year . survival and . control rates . 10% and . respectively. In ( analysis, more ( 3 positive ＜ nodes metastases ＜ a strong ＜ factor for ) free survival ) (p＜0.0001) and ( control rates ( Tumor size ( larger than ) cm was ) recognized as . prognostic factors . local control . (p=0.0213).
Conclusion: Electron ( irradiation for ( of breast ) has been ) with good ) control in . study. It . compatible with : study in : reports. This : has the . of easy . homogeneous dose . and less . complication. The . of high . group patients . poor, more . management may . needed for these patients.
Purpose: : evaluate the : of postoperative : beam irradiation Ⅱ stage Ⅱ Ⅱ Ⅲ breast Ⅲ and methods: Ⅲ August 1987 Ⅲ June 1992, . retrospectively analyzed . results of : beam irradiation : 87 women : primary breast . treated by . radical mastectomy. . chemotherapy and . therapy were . given to : and 40 : respectively.
Results: The Ⅱ disease-free survival Ⅱ for stage Ⅱ and Ⅲ Ⅲ were 80% Ⅲ 31%, respectively. . 5-year local . rates for . Ⅱ and Ⅱ patients were Ⅱ and 72%, Ⅲ Thirty-seven patients Ⅲ distant rnetastases. Ⅲ was the . common site. . percent of . 1 and . of grade . late skin . were noted. . grade 1 . of lung . noted in . of patients. . patients of . risk group ( size of ( than 5 ) and more ) 3 positive ) nodes metastases), . 5-year disease-free . and local . rates were . and 37%, . In multivariate ( more than ( positive axillary ＜ metastases was ＜ strong prognostic ＜ for disease. ) survival rates ) and local ( rates (p=0.0096). ( size of ( than 5 ) was also ) as independent . factors for . control rates . Electron beam ( for postmastectomy ( breast cancer ) been proven ) good local ) in this . It is . with the : in many : This technique : the advantages . easy setup, . dose distribution, . less pulmonary . The outcomes . high risk . patients are . more aggressive . may be . for these patients.
目的 Patients with 腺瘤 adenoma can 有三種 managed by 合 effective modes 使用 treatments. Combined 放射 and radiotherapy 於 used to 較 pituitary macroadenoma 腺瘤 recurrent pituitary 復 The object 之 this study 的 to investigate 探討合 survival rate 使用 prognostic factors 放射 combined surgery 存活率 radiotherapy.
Materials and 各種 Between 1983 因子 1993, 47 之影響 with pathologically 方法 pitiuitary adenoma 自 radiation therapy 總計 Mackay Memorial 報告 Of these 為 25 were 的 and 22 馬 females. The 紀念 age was 放射 years with 其中 range of 位 to 71 位 Visual disturbance 範圍 and headache 至 were the 為 common symptoms. 的 was delivered 視力 6-MV photon ( Co-60 gamma 和 5 days 佔 week, at 放射 dose of 經由 to 200 鈷 per fraction. 每周 total tumor 每次 ranged from ( cGy to 為 cGy with 追 median dose 間 5800 cGy. 至 follow-up period 為 from 2 位 11 years 分成 a median 及 of 5.6 兩組 47 patients 組有 divided into 患者 groups by 非 tumor status 後 radiation therapy. 放射 A patients, 其中 of 42 中途 were underwent 追 resection and 復 therapy as 死亡 primary treatment. 的 these patients, 位是 patients were 另 during follow-up, 血管 3 patients 後 recurrence of 之 tumor. Five 存活率 died during 無 follow-up period, 存活率 patients for ) disease and 位 patient for 放射 The overall 來 survival rate 手術 87% and 發之腫瘤 relapse-free survival 位 was 93%. 個 (B) patients, 因腫瘤 of 5 其餘 were treated 正常 recurrence after 來 Of these 因子 one died 年齡 to tumor 劑量 124 months 影響 radiotherapy, but 皆 remaining 4 具有 are still 意義 well.
Conclusions: Using 而言 Log-rank test, 於 age and 的 are not 我們 prognostic factors. 手術 brief, we 放射 that appropriate 可 and postoperative 不錯 therapy could 控制率 good local 取代 and may 手術 radical surgery 大 the standard 腺瘤 for pituitary 方法
Aims: 目的 with pituitary 腺瘤 can be 有三種 by three 合 modes of 使用 Combined surgery 放射 radiotherapy were 於 to treat 較 macroadenoma and 腺瘤 pituitary adenoma. 復 object of 之 study was 的 investigate the 探討合 rate and 使用 factors using 放射 surgery and 存活率 and Methods: 各種 1983 and 因子 47 patients 之影響 pathologically proven 方法 adenoma received 自 therapy at 總計 Memorial Hospital. 報告 these patients, 為 were males 的 22 were 馬 The median 紀念 was 42.5 放射 with a 其中 of 21 位 71 years. 位 disturbance (72%) 範圍 headache (60%) 至 the most 為 symptoms. Irradiation 的 delivered with 視力 photon or ( gamma ray, 和 days per 佔 at a 放射 of 180 經由 200 cGy 鈷 fraction. The 每周 tumor dose 每次 from 4140 ( to 6500 為 with a 追 dose of 間 cGy. The 至 period ranged 為 2 to 位 years with 分成 median time 及 5.6 years.
Results: 兩組 patients were 組有 into two 患者 by their 非 status before 後 therapy. Group 放射 patients, consisting 其中 42 patients 中途 underwent incomplete 追 and radiation 復 as the 死亡 treatment. Among 的 patients, 4 位是 were lost 另 follow-up, and 血管 patients experienced 後 of the 之 Five patients 存活率 during the 無 period, 4 存活率 for uncontrolled ) and one 位 for CVA. 放射 overall 5-year 來 rate was 手術 and the 發之腫瘤 survival rate 位 93%. Group 個 patients, cansisting 因腫瘤 5 patients 其餘 treated for 正常 after surgery. 來 these patients, 因子 died due 年齡 tumor compression 劑量 months after 影響 but the 皆 4 cases 具有 still doing 意義 Using the 而言 test, gender, 於 and dose 的 not significant 我們 factors. In 手術 we found 放射 appropriate surgery 可 postoperative radiation 不錯 could achieve 控制率 local control 取代 may replace 手術 surgery as 大 standard treatment 腺瘤 pituitary macroadenoma.
目的 Despite recent 本 in neuro-imaging, 探討腦 techniques, and 惡性 approach using 膠質瘤 modalities, the 病患 for patients 存在 malignant gliomas 特殊 dismal. The 因子 of this 於 was to 預後之影響 our understanding 與 the relative 本 that specific 共 have on 了 outcome of 年 and Materials: 至民國 patients with 月間 malignant gliomas 馬 with anaplastic 紀念 and 25 經手術 glioblastoma multiforme), 診斷 by surgery 為 postoperative radiotherapy 惡性 Mackay Memorial 膠瘤 from April 位 through April 其中 were retrospectively 患有 Twenty-six men 星狀 16 women 另 a median 病人 of 44 多型 (range, 10 質母 70 years) 這些 entered in 皆 study. Seventeen 術 factors (age 放射 surgery; sex; 治療 presenting symptoms 針對 headaches, mental 床 seizure, visual 及 motor deficits, 組織學 changes, and 包括 difficulties; preoperative 性別 status based 出現 the Karnofsky 精神 the extent 癲病 surgical removal; 改變 radiotherapy dose; 能力 presence of 感覺 edema, brain 言語 shift, and 術 formation; tumor 為 duration of 開刀 symptoms), and 術 histological factors 放射 grade; tumor 劑量 formation) were 腦中腺 to investigate 血腫 importance in 腫瘤 length of 症狀 Data were 時間 using the 分期 proportional harzards 腫瘤 or Chi-square 腫 The overall 分析 survival time 這些 18.7 months. 對 median survival 存活期 was 25.4 的 for anaplastic 結果 and 14.2 研究 for glioblastoma 之 Four pretreatment 存活期 including histological 月 age, sex 星狀 the extent 病患 tumor resection 值 or total) 為 found to 多型 a statistically 質母 effect on 病患 when analyzed 值 by the 為 multivariate regression 分析 Univariate analysis 利用 the Chi-square 顯示 identified the 分期 neurological symptoms 手術 mental changes 之範圍 motor deficits 性別 having an 病患 effect on 頭痛 The authors 運動 that histological 缺失 age, sex, 會 of tumor 治療 and the 後 symptoms of 經由 changes or 分析 deficits were 神經 prognostic parameters 之 malignant gliomas. 可 stratifying patients 來作 more homogeneous 病患 with favorable 治療 unfavorable prognostic 不同 treatment can 因子 specially tailored 病患 different subgroups.
Aim: 目的 recent advances 本 neuro-imaging, neurosurgieal 探討腦 and aggressive 惡性 using combined 膠質瘤 the prognosis 病患 patients with 存在 gliomas remains 特殊 The goal 因子 this study 於 to increase 預後之影響 understanding of 與 relative influence 本 specific variables 共 on the 了 of patients.
Methods 年 Materials: Forty-two 至民國 with intracranial 月間 gliomas (17 馬 anaplastic astrocytomas 紀念 25 with 經手術 multiforme), treated 診斷 surgery and 為 radiotherapy at 惡性 Memorial Hospital 膠瘤 April 1985 位 April 1995, 其中 retrospectively reviewed. 患有 men and 星狀 women with 另 median age 病人 44 years 多型 10 to 質母 years) were 這些 in the 皆 Seventeen clinical 術 (age at 放射 sex; initial 治療 symptoms of 針對 mental changes, 床 visual changes, 及 deficits, sensory 組織學 and speech 包括 preoperative performance 性別 based on 出現 Karnofsky scale; 精神 extent of 癲病 removal; postoperative 改變 dose; the 能力 of brain 感覺 brain midline 言語 and hematoma 術 tumor she; 為 of initial 開刀 and 2 術 factors (histological 放射 tumor cystic 劑量 were analyzed 腦中腺 investigate their 血腫 in predicting 腫瘤 of survival. 症狀 were analyzed 時間 the Cox 分期 harzards analysis 腫瘤 Chi-square test.
Results: 腫 overall median 分析 time was 這些 months. The 對 survival time 存活期 25.4 months 的 anaplastic astrocytoma 結果 14.2 months 研究 glioblastoma multiforme 之 pretreatment variables 存活期 histological grade, 月 sex and 星狀 extent of 病患 resection (subtotal 值 total) were 為 to have 多型 statistically significant 質母 on survival 病患 analyzed together 值 the Cox 為 regression model. 分析 analysis by 利用 Chi-square test 顯示 the presenting 分期 symptoms of 手術 changes and 之範圍 deficits as 性別 an adverse 病患 on survival.
Conclusions: 頭痛 authors conclude 運動 histological grade, 缺失 sex, extent 會 tumor resection, 治療 the presenting 後 of mental 經由 or motor 分析 were important 神經 parameters in 之 gliomas. By 可 patients into 來作 homogeneous subgroups 病患 favorable or 治療 prognostic factors, 不同 can be 因子 tailored for 病患 subgroups.
目的 To evaluate 熱 effects of 水流 of water 內熱 on temperature 材料 in a 電容 and Method: 加熱 beating device 配合 the 13.56 模擬 radiofrequency capacitive 對 system. A 加熱 with flow 份 designed, namely, 電磁 silicone tube 大小 into a 公分 muscle phantom. 對 temperature to 並量 achieved is 和 It was 溫度 by thin- 份則 thermocouples which 貫穿 inserted into 的 through angiocatheter. 液流 catheters were 血液 with the 分別 of self-design 水流 Simutaneously, thermogram 和 done via 其 computerized system.
We 溫度 the thermal 第一部 in two 實驗 enviorments: 1. 由 without flow 分 a control 顯示 2. Phantom 點向外 single silicone 靠近 The flow 皆 of water 且 silicone tubes 之 controlled by 高 microtube pump.
Result: 而 control arm 分布 there was 靠近 tendency that 加熱 temperature of 溫度 part of 側端 phantom was 第二部 than lower 顯示 In experimental 愈快 progressively increased 能量 of the 也 will also 較 the ability 當 heat conduction. 能量 phenomenon was 成穩定 observed when 變化 flow rate 當假體 150.3 ml/mm.
Conclusion: 水流 flow played 水流 important role 大小 thermal distribution. 分布 higher the 溫度 of the 水流 the more 流失 ability of 狀態 conduction was 顯
Purpose: 目的 evaluate the 熱 of velocity 水流 water flow 內熱 temperature distribution 材料 a phantom.
Material 電容 Method: The 加熱 device is 配合 13.56 MHz 模擬 capacitive hyperthermia 對 A phantom 加熱 flow is 份 namely, one 電磁 tube inserted 大小 a homogenous 公分 phantom. The 對 to be 並量 is 43℃. 和 was measured 溫度 thin- coated 份則 which are 貫穿 into phantom 的 angiocatheter. The 液流 were arranged 血液 the aid 分別 self-design holder. 水流 thermogram was 和 via the 其 system.
We compare 溫度 thermal distribuation 第一部 two different 實驗 1. Phantom 由 flow as 分 control arm, 顯示 Phantom with 點向外 silicone tube. 靠近 flow rates 皆 water through 且 tubes are 之 by a 高 pump.
Result: The 而 arm demonstrated 分布 was a 靠近 that the 加熱 of upper 溫度 of the 側端 was lower 第二部 lower part. 顯示 experimental group, 愈快 increased velocity 能量 the flow 也 also increase 較 ability of 當 conduction. This 能量 was not 成穩定 when the 變化 rate reached 當假體 ml/mm.
Conclusion: Water 水流 played an 水流 role in 大小 distribution. The 分布 the velocity 溫度 the flow, 水流 more increased 流失 of heat 狀態 was noted.
近年 recent years, 硼 of boron 捕捉 capture therapy 研究 been aimed 於 the establishment 中子 epithermal neutron 避免 in order 骨 avoid the 手術 surgury and 較 the treatment 之 deep-seated tumors. 本文 this article, 世界 current status 在 epithermal neutron 超熱 in the 照射 is reviewed 以及 also the 在 and construction 水池 of the 反應器 neutron beam 中子 the Tsing 管之 Open-pool Reactor 計劃 reported.
In 近年 years, study 硼 boron neutron 捕捉 therapy has 研究 aimed at 於 establishment of 中子 neutron beams 避免 order to 骨 the open-skull 手術 and for 較 treatment of 之 tumors. In 本文 article, the 世界 status of 在 neutron beams 超熱 the world 照射 reviewed and 以及 the design 在 construction plan 水池 the epithermal 反應器 beam at 中子 Tsing Hua 管之 Reactor is 計劃
一個 Present a 的 case of 在 malignant fibrous 發現 of the × and review 硬且 reported cases 腫塊 the literature.
Material 馬 method: A 醫院 year-old female 改良 who ivitially 性 of a 術 cm hard, 顯示 mass in 纖維 right breast 腫瘤 modified radical 後 at Mackay 發 Hospital in 本科 1991. The 放射 report revealed 在 fibrous histiocytoma. 腋窩 recurrence was 凹 one year 下頸部 Radiotherapy was 的 with a 目前 dose of 發現 cGy to 此病 right chest 跡象 axilla, supraclavicular 分析 and lower 到 No evidence 發表 disease has 乳房 noted up 組織 now (Sep. 病人 Thirty five 局部 reported from 簡單 to 1992 或 article reviews 切除 that the 比 recurrence rate 性 higher in 的 who receive 較 excision, simple 局部 or partial 發率 than in 治療 who receive 只 mastectomy. If 切除 surgery is 切除 performed, radiotherapy 乳房 play a 病人 of increasing 於 control for 的 disease.
Aim: 一個 a rare 的 of primary 在 fibrous histiocytoma 發現 the breast × review the 硬且 cases in 腫塊 literature.
Material and 馬 A 38 醫院 female patient 改良 ivitially complained 性 a l0×4×8 術 hard, fixed 顯示 in her 纖維 breast underwent 腫瘤 radical mastectomy 後 Mackay Memorial 發 in May 本科 The pathology 放射 revealed malignant 在 histiocytoma. Tumor 腋窩 was noted 凹 year later. 下頸部 was administrated 的 a total 目前 of 5040 發現 to the 此病 chest wall, 跡象 supraclavicular fossa 分析 lower neck.
Result: 到 evidence of 發表 has been 乳房 up to 組織 (Sep. 1995).
Discussion: 病人 five cases 局部 from 1964 簡單 1992 in 或 reviews show 切除 the local 比 rate is 性 in patients 的 receive local 較 simple mastectomy 局部 partial mastectomy 發率 in those 治療 receive radical 只 If adequate 切除 is not 切除 radiotherapy can 乳房 a role 病人 increasing local 於 for this 的
對 resection is 的 main treatment 化療 stage I, 外科 non-small cell 選擇 cancer (NSCLC). 只好 chemotherapy programs 或 others are 是 principle palliative 對 for metastatic 仍 IV disease. 外科 exist in 不 advanced stage 考慮 a and 是 b NSCLC. 及化療 approaches including 藥物 chemotherapy followed 就 surgery, induction 的 with sequential 目前 different schedules 試驗 primary radiotherapy, 治療 chemotherapy and 肺癌 have been 又 in this 的 The optimal 狀況 for stage 所以 b NSCLC 同時 be concomitant 到 and radiotherapy 對 either radiotherapy 處 or sequential 放療 and radiotherapy. 距離 more clinical 因此 is warrant.
Surgical 對 is the 的 treatment for 化療 I, II 外科 cell lung 選擇 (NSCLC). Combination 只好 programs or 或 are the 是 palliative treatment 對 metastatic stage 仍 disease. Controversies 外科 in localized 不 stage III 考慮 and III 是 NSCLC. Different 及化療 including neoadjuvant 藥物 followed by 就 induction chemotherapy 的 sequential radiotherapy, 目前 schedules of 試驗 radiotherapy, concomitant 治療 and radiotherapy 肺癌 been reviewed 又 this article. 的 optimal treatment 狀況 stage III 所以 NSCLC may 同時 concomitant chemotherapy 到 radiotherapy than 對 radiotherapy alone 處 sequential chemotherapy 放療 radiotherapy. However, 距離 clinical trials 因此 warrant.
目的 Although the 患者 is located 全程 away from 治療 primary radiation 雖未 for head 但亦會 neck cancer 微量 receiving radiotherapy, 量 gonad will 散射光 be exposured 的 scattered radiations. 主要 scattered radiations 值儀 resulted from 輻射 from the 洩漏 and modifiers, 患者 leakage through 經由體 treatment head 到 the machine, 材料 scattering within 本 patient from 人 treatment beams. ) & Methods: 對象 Rando phantom 的 irradiated according 線照 treatment protocol 及 nasopharyngeal cancer 劑量 The Farmer 鼻咽癌 and Thermoluminescent 治療 are used 使用 measure the 游離腔 dose. The 量 dosineler in 型 2503/3 with 頸部 c.c. lonizing 線 and the 所 of TLD 的 HF power. 劑量 Using the 及 phantom measurements, 氟化 gonad dose 結果 about 2.18 研究 when a 人 of 1800 腫瘤 is given 達 the head 未加 neck area. 時 gonad dose 的 be reduced 如 75% (from 假體 cGy to 以 cGy) when 鉛塊 abdomen of 則結果 Rando phantom 屏蔽 shielded by 劑量 cm lead 若 According to 的 measured data 劑量 calculation, the 實際 dose is 處所測 5.38 cGy 數據 the head 性腺 neck area 到 irradiated to 為 cGy.
Purpose: 目的 the gonad 患者 located far 全程 from the 治療 radiation beam 雖未 head and 但亦會 cancer patients 微量 radiotherapy, the 量 will inevitably 散射光 exposured to 的 radiations. The 主要 radiations are 值儀 from scattering 輻射 the collimators 洩漏 modifiers, photon 患者 through the 經由體 head of 到 machine, and 材料 within the 本 from the 人 beams. 
Material ) Methods: The 對象 phantom is 的 according the 線照 protocol of 及 cancer patients. 劑量 Farmer dosimeter 鼻咽癌 Thermoluminescent dosimeter 治療 used to 使用 the gonad 游離腔 The Farmer 量 in NE 型 with 0.6 頸部 lonizing chamber 線 the material 所 TLD is 的 power. 
Result: 劑量 the Rando 及 measurements, the 氟化 dose is 結果 2.18 cGy 研究 a dose 人 1800 cGy 腫瘤 given to 達 head and 未加 area. The 時 dose may 的 reduced by 如 (from 2.18 假體 to 0.54 以 when the 鉛塊 of the 則結果 phantom is 屏蔽 by 6 劑量 lead bolcks. 若 to the 的 data and 劑量 the gonad 實際 is about 處所測 cGy if 數據 head and 性腺 area is 到 to 7000 為
目的 Incidental radiation, 放射 of the 照射 field, is 的 unavoidable consequence 器官 radiotherapy. For 不可避免 use of 會 evaluation, scatter 一些 to normal 劑量 was measured 作為 an Alderson 評估 phantom simulating 需要 cancer radiotherapy. 人形 and method: 實驗 machines included 乳癌 Mitsubishi linear 治療 (6 MV) 正常 a AECL 接受 teletherapy unit. 劑量 scatter dose 材料 the brain, 所 salivary gland, 機器 gland, lung, 直線 pancreas, kidney, ) testis, and 六十 breast was 測量 Result: Measurement 器官 indicated that 唾液腺 the affected 胃 received 5000 腎 tumor dose 丸 irradiation with 乳房 MV X-ray 測量 the other 結果 except the 乳房 breast would 射線 a scatter 的 ranging between 時 cGy to 乳房 cGy. Incidental 器官 to the 散射 breast was ~ under 10 乳房 situations using 以 wedges on ( linear accelerator 鈷 MV) and 機及 Cobalt.60 teletherapy 不同 The measured 楔形 dose to ) opposite breast 不 from 64 況下作 to 425 散射 We also 在 out that 之間 wedge angles 的 a higher 對側 dose to 劑量 opposite breast. 越 From the 從本 of our 結果 we conclude: 有 The scatter ) outside of 部位 primary beam 接受 with increasing 散射 from the 低 site. 2) 楔濾片 wedges were 增加 the scatter 的 to opposite ) increased, 3) 楔形 the larger 角度 angle would 乳房 the higher 劑量 dose to 高 breast.
Purpose: 目的 radiation, outside 放射 the treatment 照射 is an 的 consequence of 器官 For the 不可避免 of clinical 會 scatter radiation 一些 normal tissue 劑量 measured with 作為 Alderson anthromorphic 評估 simulating breast 需要 radiotherapy. 
Material 人形 method: Treatment 實驗 included a 乳癌 linear accelerator 治療 MV) and 正常 AECL Cobalt-60 接受 unit. The 劑量 dose to 材料 brain, eye, 所 gland, thyroid 機器 lung, stomach, 直線 kidney, ovary, ) and opposite 六十 was measured. 測量 Measurement results 器官 that if 唾液腺 affected breast 胃 5000 cGy 腎 dose by 丸 with 6 乳房 X-ray then 測量 other organs 結果 the opposite 乳房 would absorb 射線 scatter dose 的 between 6 時 to 246 乳房 Incidental radiation 器官 the opposite 散射 was measured ~ 10 different 乳房 using diverse 以 on the ( accelerator (6 鈷 and a 機及 teletherapy unit. 不同 measured scatter 楔形 to the ) breast ranged 不 64 cGy 況下作 425 cGy. 散射 also found 在 that larger 之間 angles deliver 的 higher scatter 對側 to the 劑量 breast. 
Conclusion: 越 the result 從本 our experiment, 結果 conclude: 1) 有 scatter dose ) of the 部位 beam decreased 接受 increasing distance 散射 the irradiated 低 2) When 楔濾片 were used, 增加 scatter dose 的 opposite breast ) 3) Using 楔形 larger wedge 角度 would deliver 乳房 higher scatter 劑量 to opposite 高
: To determine : effect of : acetate on . improvement for . head and . cancer patients : radiotherapy. 
Materials : Methods: Sixty-five : patients of ( and neck ( treated between ) 1993 and ) 1994 were ) randomized to ( megestrol acetate, ( 40mg qid, ( group) or ) treatment (control ) during radiotherapy. . radiotherapy, body . (kg), appetite . performance status, ( parameters and ( parameters were ( The above ) and biochemical ) were assessed ) recorded every . week. All . received 6 . X-ray or . for full . of radiotherapy, . Gy/7-9 weeks. . Thirty-five patients . enrolled in : group and : patients in . group. At . 4th, 6th . 8th week, ( radiation dose ( the Megace ( had less ) weight loss, ) the control . (p=0.0l2, 0.003, . respectively). Significant . appetite score ( noted in ( group as ( with Megace ) (p=0.03, 0.01, ) respectively). However, ) were no . difference in . change of ( and albumin ( between these ( groups at ＞ 2nd, 4th, ＞ and 8th ＞ (p＞0.005, respectively). ) Low dose ) acetate can . decrease the . of body . loss and : of the : status for : head and . cancer patients . conventional radiotherapy.
Purpose: : determine the : of megestrol : on nutritional . for the . and neck . patients during : 
Materials and : Sixty-five consecutive : of head ( neck cancer ( between July, ) and June, ) were prospectively ) to receive ( acetate, Megace, ( qid, (Megace ( or placebo ) (control group) ) radiotherapy. Before . body weight . appetite score, . status, biochemical ( and hematological ( were evaluated. ( above clinical ) biochemical parameters ) assessed and ) every other . All patients . 6 MV . or Co60-ray . full course . radiotherapy, 64.8-75.6 . weeks. 
Result: . patients were . in Megace : and 30 : in control . At the . 6th and . week, as ( dose escalated, ( Megace group ( less body ) loss, than ) control group . 0.003, 0.008, . Significant lower . score was ( in control ( as compared ( Megace group ) 0.01, 0.004, ) However, there ) no significant . in the . of prealbumin ( albumin level ( these two ( at the ＞ 4th, 6th ＞ 8th week ＞ respectively). 
Conclusion: ) dose megestrol ) can significantly . the degree . body weight . and deterioration : the appetite : for the : and neck . patients receiving . radiotherapy.
洲際 has grown ) almost exponentially 一九九零年 the 1990s. 以幾何 of the 而身 of Internet--World-Wide-Web, 的 to its ) operational interface, 的 explosively development. 更是 article reviewed 成長 the staffs 台大 Department of 治療 Oncology in 綱路 Taiwan University 節點 setup a 全球 server on 這套 Internet in 於 purpose on cancer consultation.
Internet 洲際 grown exuberantly, ) exponentially in 一九九零年 1990s. One 以幾何 the application 而身 Internet--World-Wide-Web, owing 的 its friendly ) interface, shows 的 development. 
This 更是 reviewed how 成長 staffs of 台大 of Radiation 治療 in National 綱路 University Hospital 節點 a World-Wide-Web 全球 on the 這套 in the 於 on cancer consultation.
外科 recent trend 發展 surgical development 手術 minimal traumatic 線 However, moden 的 radiotherapeutic development 是 non-traumatic surgery, 瑞典 as radiosurgery 的 Sweden mode 比為 gamma knife 公司 rotation gamma 加馬刀 mode by 改善 Company of 公司 the focal 製 dose ratio 和 from 100:1 無 500:1. Other 的 equipment under 正在 by OUR 放射 include whole 尚有 gamma knife, 治療 knife, focal : fast neutron 中子 boron neutron 上標 treatment system, 後裝 neutron brachytherapy 機 200 MeV 使 therapy cyclotron 逐步
The 外科 trend of 發展 development is 手術 traumatic operation. 線 moden cancer 的 development is 是 surgery, such 瑞典 radiosurgery with 的 mode (Elekta) 比為 knife or 公司 gamma knife 加馬刀 by OUR 改善 of China, 公司 focal skin 製 ratio improves 和 100:1 to 無 Other radiotherapy 的 under developed 正在 OUR Company 放射 whole body 尚有 knife, X 治療 focal rotation : neutron accelerator, 中子 neutron capture 上標 system, afterloading 後裝 brachytherapy machine, 機 MeV proton 使 cyclotron etc.
( 525) Californium ) the only 唯一 man-made radiosotope 的 neutrons which 位 be used 臨 for brachytherapy. 短距 halflife of 上標 525)Cf is 的 years, 3% 年 decay are 的 nuclear fission 自然 gamma and γ radiations, the 射線 energy of 能量 is 2.35 射線 n/γ dose 值為 is 840/740 量 OER value 而 1.4~4.9, it 上標 higher when 鉲 dose rate ~ higher. The 低 value of 由 vary between 上標 and 7.5, 發出 is higher 加馬射線 dose rate 時 lower. Since 人員 emits both 屏蔽 and neutron 顯得 radiation protection 過去 the personnel 文獻 very important. 經驗 reviewed indicated 上標 intracavitary brachytherapy 可 252Cf combined 頸 external beam 治療 pelvis irradiation 併 plus surgery 全骨 77 to 照射 local tumor 切除 rate. 
Implantation 控制率 255Cf in ％ as well 用 tongue cancer 的 6% and 動 recurrent rates 治療 252Cf implantation 舌癌 be used 發率 cancer of 晚期 head and 發率 and rectum ( the immediate 鉲 regression rate 於 be as 或 as 75 挿 100%, the 短期 recurrent rate 率達 between 14 發率 25%.
(superscript ( Californium is ) only one 唯一 radiosotope emitted 的 which can 位 used clinically 臨 brachytherapy. The 短距 of (superscript 上標 is 2.65 的 3% of 年 are natural 的 fission emitting 自然 and neutron γ the mean 射線 of radiation 能量 2.35 MeV, 射線 dose ratio 值為 840/740 cGy. 量 value is 而 it is 上標 when the 鉲 rate is ~ The RBE 低 of 252Cf 由 between 3.5 上標 7.5, it 發出 higher when 加馬射線 rate is 時 Since 252Cf 人員 both gamma 屏蔽 neutron radiations, 顯得 protection for 過去 personnel become 文獻 important. Literature 經驗 indicated that 上標 brachytherapy with 可 combined with 頸 beam whole 治療 irradiation or 併 surgery provided 全骨 to 94% 照射 tumor control 切除 
Implantation of 控制率 in early ％ well advanced 用 cancer showed 的 and 33% 動 rates respectively. 治療 implantation could 舌癌 used for 發率 of breast, 晚期 and neck 發率 rectum etc, ( immediate tumor 鉲 rate could 於 as high 或 75 to 挿 the tumor 短期 rate varied 率達 14 to 發率
本 histological effects 目的 radiations on 口腔 oral mucosa 放射 its modification 之 ascorbic acid 幷 studied. At 抗壞 single dose 改變 between 850cGy 之 to 2000cGy/10 一步 wks) and 情况 (equivalent to 線 Fr/3 wks), ) pathological change 各組 oral mucosa 病理 the BALB/c 單次 showed mild ) infiltration of 之 cells (PMN). 切片 epidermal drop 核細胞 subepidermal blisters 上皮 were noted 及 1250cGy (4000cGy/20 形成 wks).
Nuclear vacuolization, ) perivascular and 形成 cell congestion 空泡 noted after 周圍 to a 充血 of 1579cGy 達 25 Fr/S ) irradiation. Furthermore, 更 drop of 全部 keratin layer 在 noted after 到 (6000cGy/30 Fr/6 開始 All these 放射 effects were 引起 when ascorbic 程度 was added 照射 irradiation. It 都 showed that 本 reduced the 亦 of radiation 口腔 in the 下層 mucosa, submucosal 能 and connective 照射 of mice, 發炎 the modification 量 of range : 1.28 to 至
The 本 effects of 目的 on mouse 口腔 mucosa and 放射 modification by 之 acid were 幷 At a 抗壞 dose range 改變 850cGy (equivalent 之 2000cGy/10 Fr/2 一步 and 1050cGy 情况 to 3000cGy/15 線 wks), the ) change in 各組 mucosa of 病理 BALB/c mice 單次 mild degree ) of polymorphonuclear 之 (PMN). Partial 切片 drop and 核細胞 blisters formation 上皮 noted at 及 (4000cGy/20 Fr/4 形成 vacuolization, severe ) and intermuscle 形成 congestion were 空泡 after exposure 周圍 a dose 充血 1579cGy (5000cGy/ 達 Fr/S wks) ) Furthermore, complete 更 of the 全部 layer was 在 after 1772cGy 到 Fr/6 wks). 開始 these histological 放射 were ameliorated 引起 ascorbic acid 程度 added before 照射 It also 都 that AA 本 the severity 亦 radiation inflammation 口腔 the oral 下層 submucosal muscle 能 connective tissues 照射 mice, and 發炎 modification factor 量 range from : to 1.66.
放射 for vocal 對 carcinoma plays 不僅 important role 好 controlling the 治療 tumors and 能 lymph nodes 保持 preserving the 說 From February 從 to December 月 75 patients 月 vocal cord 喉癌 were treated 在 curative radiotherapy 總 at VGHTC. 接受 patients were 其中 and 6 女性 were female. 平均 median age 位 64 years 位是 were 40 腫瘤 75 patients 位是 Ti, 22 第 T2, 8 位是 T3 and 第 with T4. 位是 of 75 腫瘤 had positive 另外 node metastases 患者 of 5 頸部 with TI, 其中 with T2, 一位 with T3, 腫瘤 2 with 一位 beam radiotherapy 是 mostly delivered 期 bilateral opposing 原位 and a 第 daily fraction 是 200cGy and 第 per day, 大部分 to a 治療 dose between 以 and 6600cGy. 兩側 patients were 量 with bilateral 至 portals and 患者 using 150cGy 每日 170cGy bid 治療 day, up 至 a total 總劑 between 5800cGy 至 7400cGy. 1 一位 was treated 是 bilateral opposing 式 and split 每日 technique of 以 per day 每一階段 two weeks 中間 up to 兩週 all patients 共 from acute 所有 of radiotherapy 都 except one 從 with acute 急性 edema in 中 months post 除了 and two 患者 with acute 兩個 due to 發生 in the 聲帶 days of 另 vocal function 在 rate is 最後兩 96%. The 過逝 disease- free 治療 rates in 發聲 Ti, T2 率 T3 were 腫瘤 80% and 年 respectively and 為 patients all 為 in 18 而 The P 都 is less 個 0.001. The 過逝 disease-free survival 小 in stage 對 was 82% 淋巴 N positive 患者 died in 無病 months post 而 The P 淋巴 is less 患者 0.001. Therefore 個 stage and 內 positive were 值 poorly prognostic 因此 No significant 腫瘤 of 5-year 有 survival rates 之 male and 的 or younger 十分 older age 針對 noted and 和 values were 探討 and 0.98 年 patients with 則無明 stage were 接受 by hyperfractionation 放射 from 1991 的 1992. They 經 had good 後 control with 兩年 minimum follow-up 病症 24 months 療效 it needs 需進 time to follow up.
Radiotherapy 放射 vocal cord 對 plays an 不僅 role in 好 the primary 治療 and regional 能 nodes and 保持 the voice. 說 February 1983 從 December 1992, 月 patients with 月 cord carcinoma 喉癌 treated by 在 radiotherapy alone 總 VGHTC. 69 接受 were male 其中 6 patients 女性 female. The 平均 age was 位 years old.
There 位是 40 of 腫瘤 patients with 位是 22 with 第 8 with 位是 and 5 第 T4. 5 位是 75 patients 腫瘤 positive lymph 另外 metastases (1 患者 5 patients 頸部 TI, 1 其中 T2, 1 一位 T3, and 腫瘤 with T4).
External 一位 radiotherapy was 是 delivered with 期 opposing portals 原位 a single 第 fraction between 是 and 220cCy 第 day, up 大部分 a total 治療 between 6000cGy 以 6600cGy. 8 兩側 were treated 量 bilateral opposing 至 and hyperfractionation 患者 150cGy to 每日 bid per 治療 up to 至 total dose 總劑 5800cGy to 至 1 patient 一位 treated with 是 opposing portals 式 split course 每日 of 300cGy 以 day with 每一階段 weeks interval, 中間 to 6000cGy.
Almost 兩週 patients recovered 共 acute reactions 所有 radiotherapy soon 都 one patient 從 acute laryngeal 急性 in 2 中 post radiotherapy 除了 two patients 患者 acute pneumonia 兩個 to cachexia 發生 the last 聲帶 of radiotherapy.
The 另 function preservation 在 is about 最後兩 The 5-year 過逝 free survival 治療 in stage 發聲 T2 and 率 were 86%, 腫瘤 and 75% 年 and T4 為 all died 為 18 months. 而 P value 都 less than 個 The 5-year 過逝 survival rate 小 stage N0 對 82% but 淋巴 positive patients 患者 in 30 無病 post radiotherapy. 而 P value 淋巴 less than 患者 Therefore T4 個 and N 內 were obviously 值 prognostic factors. 因此 significant differences 腫瘤 5-year disease-free 有 rates between 之 and female 的 younger and 十分 age were 針對 and P 和 were 0.36 探討 0.98 respectively.
5 年 with early 則無明 were treated 接受 hyperfractionation radiotherapy 放射 1991 to 的 They have 經 good local 後 with a 兩年 follow-up of 病症 months but 療效 needs more 需進 to follow up.
( retrospective analysis ( 142 eases ( stage T4 ) carcinoma (NPC) ) with radiotherapy . Jan. 1970 . Dec. 1988 . undertaken. Ninety . completed radiotherapy . 52 patients . excluded due ( incomplete radiotherapy ( pt) or ( disease within ) months after ) (34 pt). ( mean dose ( to the ) tumor was ) while neck . metastasis received . dose ranging . 50Gy to . depending on . size. The ( were subclassified ( stage T4b ) skull base ) (37pt), T4a ( cranial nerve ( (23pt) and ) for bone ) nerve involvement ( pt). Analysis ( that local ( was associated ) the number ) cranial nerve . tumor grade . biological dose ( (BED). Actuarial ( was significantly ) by tumor ) T stage . T4b showing . best survival . 49.5%), and ( of tumor ( with middle ) fossa involvement ) a higher ( year survival ( with posterior . middle-posterior cranial . involvement (48% . 19.6% vs. . respectively, p＜0.05). . overall 5-year ＜ for these ＜ stage T4 ) NPC patients ) 56.5%, the . recurrence rate . 34.4% with . median -disease . interval of 15 months.
A ( analysis of ( eases of ( T4 nasopharyngeal ) (NPC) treated ) radiotherapy between . 1970 and . 1988 was . Ninety patients . radiotherapy while . patients were . due to ( radiotherapy (18 ( or systemic ( within 2 ) after radiotherapy ) pt). The ( dose given ( the primary ) was 73Gy ) neck node . received a . ranging from . to 70Gy . on nodal . The patients ( subclassified into ( T4b for ) base invasion ) T4a for ( nerve palsy ( and T4bn ) bone and ) involvement (30 ( Analysis showed ( local control ( associated with ) number of ) nerve involved, . grade and . dose equivalent ( Actuarial survival ( significantly influenced ) tumor grade, ) stage with . showing the . survival (5-year . and site ( tumor invasion ( middle cranial ) involvement showing ) higher 5 ( survival compared ( posterior and . cranial fossa . (48% vs. . vs. 29.2% . p＜0.05). The . 5-year survival ＜ these 90 ＜ T4 regional ) patients was ) the local . rate was . with a . -disease free . of 15 months.
我們 retrospective methods, 位 patients of 經 retinopathy were 攝影 by fluores. 輻射視 angiography in 病變 department in 分析 patients who 接受 radiotherapy because 劑量 nasopharyngeal tumor. 的 analyze the 因子 irradiation dose 至 the relative 位 factors.
Fifteen patients, 眼睛 eyes of 有 retinopathy were 性視 from 1984 潛伏期 1992.The median 月 period was 月 months with 是 range of 月 to 72 個 and the 分析 was 24 接受 The median 輻射劑 irradiation dose 從 3688cGy ranging 值 2262cGy to 為 and the 病人 was 3795cGy 眼睛 retrospective treatment 視綱膜 computer analyses. 變外 patients, 5 白內障 had cataract 生 in addition 長 the radiation 追 Visual acuity 問 in 15 中 and progressive 變化 in 14 有 were found 隻 long term 網膜 Five patients 的 additional chemotherapy 接受 no significant 治療 from other 其劑 in term 潛伏期 the latent 病人 anal irradiation 差異 for retinopathy. 二位 was found 來 two patients 而 took the 治療 in the 文中 follow-up period.
We 輻射視 the possible 的 in radiation 機轉 and a 可能 of the 回顧
With 我們 methods, 15 位 of radiation 經 were diagnosed 攝影 fluores. cein 輻射視 in ophthalmology 病變 in those 分析 who received 接受 because of 劑量 tumor. We 的 the retina 因子 dose and 至 relative risk 位 patients, 26 眼睛 of radiation 有 were found 性視 1984 to 潛伏期 median latent 月 was 20 月 with the 是 of 10 月 72 months 個 the mean 分析 24 months. 接受 median retina 輻射劑 dose was 從 ranging from 值 to 5963cGy 為 the mean 病人 3795cGy after 眼睛 treatment plan 視綱膜 analyses. Three 變外 5 eyes 白內障 cataract formation 生 addition to 長 radiation retinopathy. 追 acuity change 問 15 eyes 中 progressive retinopathy 變化 14 eyes 有 found after 隻 term follow-up. 網膜 patients with 的 chemotherapy showed 接受 significant difference 治療 other patients 其劑 term of 潛伏期 latent period 病人 irradiation dose 差異 retinopathy. Hypertension 二位 found in 來 patients who 而 the medication 治療 the later 文中 period.
We discussed 輻射視 possible mechanism 的 radiation biology 機轉 a review 可能 the literature.
髖關 To investigate 是 the effects 之 postoperative low-dose 有 fraction irradiation 因子 prevention of 的 bone formation 所謂 hip surgery 包括 high-risk patients.
Materials 脊椎炎 Methods: From 骨折 to 1994 異位 patients (18 歷 were treated 危險群 single-dose irradiation 發生 hip joints 骨化 hip surgery 有 an attempt 治療 prevent heterotopic 等 formation. Of 改良 patients, there 有效 12 patients 有效 ankylosing spondilitis, 服用 patient with 副作用 2 patients 治療 bony fractures, 耗時 patients post 臨 surgical procedures, 之 1 patient 至 past history 總共 ectopic bone 病人 These patients 關節 surgical procedures 了 primary total-hip 例 (14 hips), 髖部 of arthroplasty 髖關節 hips), or 有 reduction of 既往 fracture (1 有 Radiotherapy was 個 with either 為 gamma ray 從 patients) or 所作 MV X-ray 全關 patients) at 關節 doses of 接合 or 7 放射 several hours 術 6 days 利用 operation.
Results: New 一千 bone formation 後 found in 施以 patients (2 範圍 while 1 股骨 (1 hip) 周圍 stable disease, 劑量 a follow-up 治療 from 4 蹤 66 months 期間 months). Neither 關節 disability nor 骨化 related to 發生 ossification and 節則 developed.
Conclusion: Postoperative 此外 single fraction 幷 with 5 骨化 7 Gy 不良 an effective 顯示 safe procedure 照射 prevent heterotopic 關節 formation in 有效 patients after 治療 surgery.
Purpose: 髖關 investigate retrospectively 是 effects of 之 low-dose single 有 irradiation in 因子 of ectopic 的 formation after 所謂 surgery in 包括 patients.
Materials and 脊椎炎 From 1989 骨折 1994 fifteen 異位 (18 hips) 歷 treated with 危險群 irradiation to 發生 joints after 骨化 surgery in 有 attempt to 治療 heterotopic bone 等 Of these 改良 there were 有效 patients with 有效 spondilitis, 1 服用 with osteoarthritis, 副作用 patients with 治療 fractures, 3 耗時 post multiple 臨 procedures, and 之 patient with 至 history of 總共 bone formation. 病人 patients received 關節 procedures of 了 total-hip arthroplasty 例 hips), revision 髖部 arthroplasty (3 髖關節 or open 有 of acetabular 既往 (1 hip). 有 was delivered 個 either Cobalt-60 為 ray (4 從 or 10 所作 X-ray (11 全關 at midplane 關節 of 5 接合 7 Gy 放射 hours to 術 days after 利用 New ectopic 一千 formation was 後 in 2 施以 (2 hips), 範圍 1 patient 股骨 hip) has 周圍 disease, with 劑量 follow-up time 治療 4 to 蹤 months (median=31 期間 Neither functional 關節 nor complication 骨化 to heterotopic 發生 and irradiation 節則 Postoperative low-dose 此外 fraction irradiation 幷 5 or 骨化 Gy is 不良 effective and 顯示 procedure to 照射 heterotopic bone 關節 in high-risk 有效 after hip 治療
爲 of pelvic 對 and results 後 salvage with 的 therapy in 態及 patients with 綫 recurrent rectal 挽救 treated between 的 1987 and 及 1991 were 情形 analyzed. The 本文 presenting symptoms/signs 了 sacral pain 自 following by 至 uropathy (45%). 治療 modified Astler-Coller 復 stage B3 的 C3 are 表徵以 most common 疼痛 stage of ) patients, comprising 則是 of cases. ( area was 分期 most common 兩者 of recurrence 占 70% of 的 recurred at 手術 first year 最多 surgery. Cumulative 的 of recurrence 在手 3 years 的 96%. Only 三年 of patients 復 beyond 3 後 after surgery. 的 of cases 在 CEA elevation 有 the time 升高 recurrence. There 治療 38 patients 在 for tumor 病人 to radiation ( alone. Of 完全 4 cases 例 achieved complete 腫瘤 regression, 18 例 (47%) had 腫瘤 tumor regression, 達 cases (26%) ( tumor regression 沒有 than 50%, 疼痛 6 cases 方面 had no 獨 tumor regression. 且 31 ItT-alone 疼痛 with sacral 者 10 cases ) achieved good 良好 relief, 14 例 (45%) achieved 自覺 pain relief, 但 7 cases 存在 had no ( relief at 沒有 Overall survival 存活率 56 patients 年 19% at 手術 and 7% 治療 3 years. 使用 statistically significant 兩者 of survival 幷 between surgery 統計 radiation therapy 差別 radiation-alone group. ) viewing the 於 outcome of 後 patients, treatment 的 must be 治療 at prevention 目標 local recurrence 局部 high risk 的 of patients.
Patterns 爲 pelvic recurrence 對 results of 後 with radiation 的 in 56 態及 with postsurgical 綫 rectal carcinoma 挽救 between November 的 and December 及 were retrospectively 情形 The common 本文 symptoms/signs were 了 pain (66%), 自 by obstructive 至 (45%). In 治療 Astler-Coller classification, 復 B3 and 的 are the 表徵以 common initial 疼痛 of the ) comprising 64% 則是 cases. Presacral ( was the 分期 common site 兩者 recurrence (30%). 占 of patients 的 at the 手術 year of 最多 Cumulative rate 的 recurrence at 在手 years was 的 Only 4% 三年 patients recurred 復 3 years 後 surgery. 42% 的 cases had 在 elevation at 有 time of 升高 There were 治療 patients evaluable 在 tumor response 病人 radiation therapy ( Of them, 完全 cases (11%) 例 complete tumor 腫瘤 18 cases 例 had partial 腫瘤 regression, 10 達 (26%) had ( regression less 沒有 50%, and 疼痛 cases (16%) 方面 no objective 獨 regression. In 且 ItT-alone patients 疼痛 sacral pain, 者 cases (32%) ) good pain 良好 14 cases 例 achieved moderate 自覺 relief, and 但 cases (23%) 存在 no pain ( at all. 沒有 survival in 存活率 patients was 年 at 2years, 手術 7% at 治療 years. No 使用 significant difference 兩者 survival existed 幷 surgery plus 統計 therapy and 差別 group. In ) the grave 於 of recurrent 後 treatment strategy 的 be aimed 治療 prevention of 目標 recurrence for 局部 risk group 的 patients.
自 January 1988 月 October 1993, 月 patients with 位經 confirmed intracranial 證實 gliomas were 腦部 with post-operative 膠瘤 therapy in 於 department. They 術 subjected to 放射 analysis according 本文 the extent 之預 surgery, postoperative 因子 performance status, 之 histology grading, 爲 radiation doses, 多發 presence or 範圍 of seizures. 狀態 were 26 ) and 19 影響 between 11 之預 67 years 治療 age. The 第三 survival for 惡性 with anaplastic 退化 and glioblastoma 之中 was 11.9 為 11.5 months, 月 The postoperative 惡性 performance status, 膠瘤 of surgery, 經膠 the multiplicity 之中 lesions were 為 as significant prognostic factors.
From 自 1988 to 月 1993, forty-five 月 with histologically 位經 intracranial malignant 證實 were treated 腦部 post-operative radiation 膠瘤 in our 於 They were 術 to this 放射 according to 本文 extent of 之預 postoperative Karnofsky 因子 status, age, 之 grading, sex, 爲 doses, and 多發 or absence 範圍 seizures. There 狀態 26 males ) 19 females 影響 11 and 之預 years of 治療 The median 第三 for patients 惡性 anaplastic astrocytoma 退化 glioblastoma multiforme 之中 11.9 and 為 months, respectively. 月 postoperative Karnofsky 惡性 status, extent 膠瘤 surgery, and 經膠 multiplicity of 之中 were identified 為 significant prognostic factors.
多 focusing irradiation 高劑 by applying 六十 beam from 治療 accelerator or 是 cobalt sources 立體 been used 以多射束 the treatment 加馬 brain tumors. 集中 Unit (Gamma 部位 containing 201 綫 sources has 亦 developed and 綫 in Sweden ( decades and 亦 also has 為 become popular 六十 the treatment 之 deep-located brain 治療 or abnormalities 瑞典 the recent 多年 years. Owing 來 the high 美日 of its 顆 cobalt sources, 射源 internal structure, 技術 beam direction, 六十 radiation leakage 其構造 operations of 射束 new treatment 的 and techniques 與 Gamma Unit 鈷 quite different 治療 those of 國內 cobalt teletherapy 經驗 So far, 研究 is no 為針 therapeutic experience 特殊 Taiwan. This 設備 is to 室 up the 屏蔽 assurance program 估及 to evaluate 之 own data 輻安 radiation protection, 以 possible radiation 人員 and measurement 陪伴 increase the 安全性 safety for ( as well 具 staffs. Laksell 大小 Unit (Model 之準 with 4 ) sized interchangable 之 helmets, individual ( plugs and 不同 detector including 偵檢儀 chambers, LiF 氟化 dosimeter chips, 量計 films, spherical 聚苯乙烯 phantom and 球形 meters were 偵檢儀 for exposure 及 absorbed dose 室 The radiation 的 measurements around, 及 and beneath 的 treatment room 於 background readings 圍 were below 經測量 limits established 輻射 NCRP Report 皆 This study 值均 provide not 輻射 the data ( rules to 之 for the 的 safety in 內 center, but 除 the reference 中心 for other 外 when they 供國內 similar facilities 添裝類 the coming 參考
Stereotactic 多 irradiation (radiosurgery) 高劑 applying multiple 六十 from linear 治療 or multiple 是 sources has 立體 used in 以多射束 treatment of 加馬 tumors. Gamma 集中 (Gamma Knife) 部位 201 cobalt 綫 has been 亦 and used 綫 Sweden for ( and it 亦 has gradually 為 popular in 六十 treatment of 之 brain tumors 治療 abnormalities in 瑞典 recent 10 多年 Owing to 來 high activity 美日 its 201 顆 sources, the 射源 structure, installation, 技術 direction, possible 六十 leakage and 其構造 of this 射束 treatment modality 的 techniques of 與 Unit are 鈷 different from 治療 of traditional 國內 teletherapy machines. 經驗 far, there 研究 no such 為針 experience in 特殊 This study 設備 to set 室 the quality 屏蔽 program and 估及 evaluate our 之 data about 輻安 protection, shielding, 以 radiation leakage 人員 measurement to 陪伴 the radiation 安全性 for patients ( well as 具 Laksell Gamma 大小 (Model B) 之準 4 different ) interchangable collimator 之 individual collimator ( and different 不同 including ion 偵檢儀 LiF thermoluminescent 氟化 chips, verification 量計 spherical polystyrene 聚苯乙烯 and survey 球形 were used 偵檢儀 exposure and 及 dose measurement, 室 radiation leakage 的 around, above 及 beneath the 的 room were 於 readings which 圍 below the 經測量 established by 輻射 Report 49. 皆 study will 值均 not only 輻射 data and ( to follow 之 the radiation 的 in our 內 but also 除 reference data 中心 other hospitals 外 they install 供國內 facilities in 添裝類 coming days.
鼻咽癌 IgA titer 患者 gene products 中 Epstein-Barr virus 病毒 prevalently elevated 普遍 patients with 而且 carcinoma, an 內及 of EBV 淋巴 Pathologically, tumor 浸潤 lymphocytes that 大量 be attracted 可是 the presence 的 EBY in 卻 NPC cells 衰退 increased immensely 介白素 the neighborhood ( tumor nest. 有壓 a glance, 抑細胞性 seemed to 反應 both cellular 殺手 humoral immune 及 However, the 細胞 of patients 提昇體 decreased following 免疫 progression of 例如 disease.
Interleukin-l0 (IL-l0), 抗體 potent cytokine 產生 inhibitory factor, 作用 function of 病毒 cells and 基因 cells ns 介白素 as that 有 monocytes and 的 the major 基因 of cellular 又 response. Besides 也 suppression on 具有 immunity, IL-b 的 B cells 再者 enhance their 介白素 cell proliferation, 受體 II MHC ( and immunoglobulin 也 a hallmark 壓抑 humoral immune 免疫 Interestingly, sequence 因此 a EBV 就針 gene, UCIIF1, 這些 highly homologous 與 that of 鼻咽癌 mouse and 的 IL-10(BCRF1 gene 等 is now 提出 as vIL-10). 我們 may exert 看法 similar function 著 that of 與 The activity 病毒 vIL-10 may 的 the unusual 病毒 phenomena and 致癌 aggregated non-functional 細胞 surrounding the 病毒 nest. Anthor 相互作用 affecting the 培養 immunity is 的 presence of 病毒 interleukin-2 receptor 與 that will 致病 with the 的 IL-2R and 進而 the immune 病毒 With these 癌細胞 the authors 中 discuss the 是 ”the role 感染 Epstein-Barr virus 再 and the 感染 of patients 由此 nasopharyngeal cancer” 病人 the following 的 EBV-associated diseases 减弱 oncogenesis, virus-cell 疾病 cell culture 惡化 synergistic effect 能 viral and 科學 risk factors, 的 infection or 幫助 reactivated infection, 病人 abrogation of 免疫力 and tumor 的 Hopefully, the 原因 will delineate 臨床 plausible reason 現象 the decreasing 更好 in patients 解釋 NPC and 爲 provide a 未來 explanation for 免疫 clinical phenomena 基因 well as 或 theoretical base 基因 the future 的 of immunotherapy, 提供 therapy and 理論 therapy.
Seral 鼻咽癌 titer to 患者 products of 中 virus is 病毒 elevated in 普遍 with nasopharyngeal 而且 an indication 內及 EBV infection. 淋巴 tumor infiltrating 浸潤 that could 大量 attracted by 可是 presence of 的 in the 卻 cells also 衰退 immensely in 介白素 neighborhood of ( nest. In 有壓 glance, EBV 抑細胞性 to induce 反應 cellular and 殺手 immune response. 及 the immunocompetence 細胞 patients inversely 提昇體 following the 免疫 of the 例如 (IL-l0), a 抗體 cytokine synthesis 產生 factor, suppresses 作用 of T 病毒 and NK 基因 ns well 介白素 that of 有 and macrophages, 的 major components 基因 cellular immune 又 Besides its 也 on cellular 具有 IL-b stimulates 的 cells to 再者 their viability, 介白素 proliferation, class 受體 MHC expression ( immunoglobulin secretion, 也 hallmark of 壓抑 immune response. 免疫 sequence of 因此 EBV late 就針 UCIIF1, is 這些 homologous to 與 of both 鼻咽癌 and human 的 gene product 等 now designated 提出 vIL-10). It 我們 exert a 看法 function like 著 of JL-10. 與 activity of 病毒 may explain 的 unusual seral 病毒 and the 致癌 non-functional lymphocytes 細胞 the tumor 病毒 Anthor factor 相互作用 the cellular 培養 is the 的 of soluble 病毒 receptor (sIL-2R) 與 will compete 致病 the membrane-bound 的 and desensitize 進而 immune response. 病毒 these leads, 癌細胞 authors will 中 the subject 是 role of 感染 virus infection 再 the immunocompetence 感染 patients with 由此 cancer” in 病人 following catogories: 的 diseases and 减弱 virus-cell interaction, 疾病 culture model, 惡化 effect between 能 and other 科學 factors, latent 的 or the 幫助 infection, and 病人 of immunocompetence 免疫力 tumor progression. 的 the discussion 原因 delineate the 臨床 reason for 現象 decreasing immunocompetence 更好 patients with 解釋 and will 爲 a better 未來 for the 免疫 phenomena as 基因 as the 或 base for 基因 future design 的 immunotherapy, gene 提供 and immuno-gene 理論
在 primary purpose 治療 portal film 一般 to verify 野片 treatment volume 而來 shielding block 位置 under the 製 condition of 遮 However, the 塊 of portal 器官 is rarely 腫瘤 have a 組織 780c Co-60 情形 machine and 的 Toshiba LX-40A 不能 in our 的 However, the 現擁 specification of 六十 size and 機及 (source-tray-distance) of 但 shadow tray 所 the simulator 與 totally different ( those of 擋 Co-60 unit. ( fore we 不符 to modify 製 shadow tray 的 make it 幷 to our 其準 practice. The 與 of the 短少 shadow tray 等 only 0.4cm ( than our 造成 design. This 擋 in about 較 magnifying imaging 將 block shadow 的 films in 塊 position of 於 With the 的 of the 下 shadow tray, 以下 can verify ) shielding block 易 the simulator 有 with the 皆 advantages: (1) 可辨 anatomical field 患者 to prevent 因擋 marginal miss. 作 the avoidance 而 the repeat 的 films due ( wrong position 治療 shielding block.(3) ) quality assurance. (4) user-friendly.
The 在 purpose of 治療 film is 一般 verify the 野片 volume and 而來 block position 位置 the actual 製 of treatment. 遮 the quality 塊 portal film 器官 rarely satisfactory.
We 腫瘤 a Theratron 組織 Co-60 teletherapy 情形 and a 的 LX-40A simulator 不能 our department. 的 the orginal 現擁 of the 六十 and STD 機及 of the 但 tray in 所 simulator are 與 different from ( of the 擋 unit. There ( we have 不符 modify the 製 tray to 的 it suitable 幷 our daily 其準 The STD 與 the modified 短少 tray is 等 0.4cm shorter ( our original 造成 This result 擋 about 0.8% 較 imaging of 將 shadow on 的 in the 塊 of SAD=80cm. 於 the use 的 the modified 下 tray, we 以下 verify the ) block in 易 simulator directly 有 the following 皆 (1) clear 可辨 field boundaries 患者 prevent geographic 因擋 miss. (2) 作 avoidance of 而 repeat portal 的 due to ( position of 治療 block.(3) therapeutic ) assurance. (4) user-friendly.
近年 advances in 在 oncology have 治療 made since 的 radiation therapy, 在 chemotherapy have 手術 integrated in 化學 management of 配合 with cancer. 化學 chemo-radiotherapy can 手術 used successfully 殘餘 control minimal 治療 disease after 有 However, particularly 嚴重 certain drugs, 有 reactions can 療效 augmented severely 言 as to 化學 crippling if 故 lethal damage. 之 skill and 上 of an 的 team is 想 if the 治療 of combined 熟練 are to 富經驗 maximized, and 小組 risks minimized.
Major 近年 in pediatric 在 have been 治療 since surgery, 的 therapy, and 在 have been 手術 in the 化學 of children 配合 cancer. Combined 化學 can be 手術 successfully to 殘餘 minimal residual 治療 after resections. 有 particularly with 嚴重 drugs, radiation 有 can be 療效 severely so 言 to produce 化學 if not 故 damage. The 之 and expertise 上 an experienced 的 is needed 想 the benefits 治療 combined care 熟練 to be 富經驗 and the 小組 minimized.
在後荷 the afterloading 子宮 was available, 治療 radium was 錠 mainstay for 十年 of carcinoma 經驗 the uterine 進步 After many 自 of clinical 荷式 the experience 宮頸 still useful 線 references in 與 he developments 荷式 brachytherapy for 回溯 cancer. This 病例 reports our 的 during 1977 第一期 1983 when 和 radium was 尿道 for intracavitary 後 Comparison is 治療 with results 不 with afterloading 在 in later 發生 Three hundred 分別 forty seven 多 were in 鱗狀 in this 的 analysis. The 技術 and 10-year 的 survival rates 以前 stage I 為主 and 45.6%; 的 II 67.8% 是 53.5%; and 參考 III 48.9% 年間 40.3%, respectively. 錠 were 8 內 of major 的 of the 後 tract and 有所 which occurred 的 or more 五年 after treatment. 存活率 patients were 第二期 to have 個 malignant tumor 直腸 years after 它們 These tumors 一年 2 breast 有 1 multiple 後 I squamous 第二 carcinoma of 個 lung, and 骨髓瘤 soft tissue 個 of the 肉瘤 wall.
Before 在後荷 afterloading technique 子宮 available, preloaded 治療 was the 錠 for radiotherapy 十年 carcinoma of 經驗 uterine cervix. 進步 many decades 自 clinical practice, 荷式 experience is 宮頸 useful as 線 in t 與 developments of 荷式 for cervical 回溯 This study 病例 our results 的 1977 through 第一期 when preloaded 和 was used 尿道 intracavitary brachytherapy. 後 is made 治療 results treated 不 afterloading technique 在 later years. 發生 hundred and 分別 seven cases 多 in eluded 鱗狀 this retrospective 的 The 5-year 技術 10-year actuarial 的 rates were: 以前 I 89.2% 為主 45.6%; stage 的 67.8% and 是 and stage 參考 48.9% and 年間 respectively. There 錠 8 cases 內 major complications 的 the urinary 後 and rectum 有所 occurred one 的 more years 五年 treatment. Five 存活率 were diagnosed 第二期 have second 個 tumor 1-11 直腸 after irradiation. 它們 tumors include 一年 breast cancers, 有 multiple myeloma, 後 squamous cell 第二 of the 個 and 1 骨髓瘤 tissue sarcoma 個 the abdominal 肉瘤
近 prognosis for 廣泛 advanced cervical 性子 has not 的 in the 改善 3 decades. 放射 strategies for 仍為 the outcome 主力 better local 仍待 as well 的 effective management 不外乎 occult metastases 局部 present at 及 Radiotherapy has 隱匿性 been the 病灶 treatment for 過去 stages. The 加入 of other 缺氧 including surgery, 致敏劑 cell sensitizer, 或 oxygen, or 治療 therapy has 方式 with limited 因療效 no success, 或 has been 顯 with an 成效 morbidity. The 目前 of chemotherapy, 併 as single 的 or in 被 has been 最 evaluated in 「 or recurrent 化學 or neoadjuvant 」 is one 作法 the novel 較 approaches. Various 的 have been 試 mostly cisplatin-based 的 Several investigators 大都 phase II 以 of neoadjuvant 多種 Some of 組合 trials showed 回顧 result. Nevertheless, 研究者 failed to 肯定 any benefit 報告 terms of 有些 relapse and/or 指出 present, the 治療 regimen that 單獨 to a 放射 efficacy and 作比較 minimum toxicity 提高 to be 控制 We have 存活率 learn whether 化學 induction chemotherapy 合 improves survivals 放射 is yet 實際 approach that 如何 demonstrates good 更進 without impact 研究 survival.
The 近 for locally 廣泛 cervical cancer 性子 not improved 的 the past 改善 decades. The 放射 for improving 仍為 outcome include 主力 local control 仍待 well as 的 management of 不外乎 metastases already 局部 at diagnosis. 及 has always 隱匿性 the standard 病灶 for these 過去 The addition 加入 other modalities 缺氧 surgery, hypoxic 致敏劑 sensitizer, hyperbaric 或 or neutron 治療 has met 方式 limited or 因療效 success, or 或 been associated 顯 an increased 成效 The role 目前 chemotherapy, either 併 single agent 的 in combination, 被 been extensively 最 in advanced 「 recurrent disease.
Induction 化學 neoadjuvant chemotherapy 」 one of 作法 novel therapeutic 較 Various regimens 的 been used, 試 cisplatin-based combinations. 的 investigators conducted 大都 II trials 以 neoadjuvant chemotherapy. 多種 of these 組合 showed positive 回顧 Nevertheless, some 研究者 to demonstrate 肯定 benefit in 報告 of locoregional 有些 and/or survival
At 指出 the optimum 治療 that lends 單獨 a maximum 放射 and a 作比較 toxicity remains 提高 be determined. 控制 have to 存活率 whether the 化學 chemotherapy eventually 合 survivals or 放射 yet another 實際 that just 如何 good responses 更進 impact on 研究
高劑 stereotactic high-dose-rate 率 technique has 近接 been implemented 技術 the treatment 被 malignant gliomas. 用 Cosman-Roberts-Wells (CRW) 惡性 ring is 細胞瘤 to the 首先 skull with 鐵環 CT localization 病人 attached to 戴上 base ring. 定位 patient undergoes 後 contrast enhanced 電腦 scanning. The 掃描 images are 影像 to the 碟片 stereotactic brachytherapy 三度 planning system 治療 through optical ( Then the 先前 is generated 計劃 determine the 管數目 of catheters, 各導 location of 射源 catheter, the 位置 positions in 時間 catheter and 而產生 implant time. 主要 goal is 是 provide a 的 dose fall 到 outside the 勻 volume while 而 the best 標 dose homogeneity 外 the target 劑量 Once the 一旦 is approved, 好 patient is 病人 to the 送 room. According 依據 the pre-plan 的 neurosurgeons make 腦神經 small hole 醫師 twist-drill on 鑽 skull and 頭殼 place the 一個 into the 再 location. Later 預定 the real 中 of catheters 互相 the brain 方向 verified by 片 radiographics and 驗證 with the 管及 positions. After 治療 the implant 位置 and position 差異 each seed 地 compromise the 射源 deviation of 停留 the patient 以彌補 treated with 的 unit. High 再將 Ir-192 source 後 afterloaded into 治療 catheters by 治療 system. Based 我們 our preliminary 經驗 a phase 開始 clinical study 二相 been initiated.
A 高劑 high-dose-rate brachytherapy 率 has recently 近接 implemented for 技術 treatment of 被 gliomas. A 用 (CRW) base 惡性 is attached 細胞瘤 the patient's 首先 with a 鐵環 localization frame 病人 to the 戴上 ring. The 定位 undergoes a 後 enhanced CT 電腦 The CT 掃描 are transferred 影像 the three-dimensional 碟片 brachytherapy treatment 三度 system (Brain-SCAN) 治療 optical disc. ( the pre-plan 先前 generated to 計劃 the number 管數目 catheters, the 各導 of each 射源 the source 位置 in each 時間 and the 而產生 time. The 主要 is to 是 a steep 的 fall off 到 the target 勻 while providing 而 best possible 標 homogeneity within 外 target volume. 劑量 the plan 一旦 approved, the 好 is taken 病人 the operation 送 According to 依據 pre-plan data, 的 make a 腦神經 hole by 醫師 on the 鑽 and then 頭殼 the catheters 一個 the desired 再 Later on, 預定 real positions 中 catheters in 互相 brain are 方向 by orthogonal 片 and compare 驗證 the preplanned 管及 After adjusting 治療 implant time 位置 position of 差異 seed to 地 the position 射源 of catheters, 停留 patient is 以彌補 with MicroSelectron 的 High activity 再將 source is 後 into the 治療 by remote-control 治療 Based on 我們 preliminary experience, 經驗 phase I/II 開始 study has 二相 initiated.
本文 purpose of 在 present paper 以 to evaluate 放射 feasibility and 法 tolerance of 晚期 radiotherapy in 手術 or inoperable 肺癌 cancer patients. 可行 patients, all 可以 non-small cell 放療 cancer (NSCLC) 十三 one, were 接受 with 120 方式 bid hyperfractionated 一例 The age 肺癌 were between 非小細胞 and 84 於 with 12 之問 them older 便 60. Except 人大 medically inoperable 歲 patient, all 為 remaining 11 病人 patients were 於 locally advanced 無法 had local-regional 其他 Patients received 均 cGy to 晚期 mediastinum and 發 cGy to 方法 primary lesion. 腔 and maximum 腫瘤 was 1 最長 34 months, 蹤 Seven patients 別 dysphagia/sore throat 個 irradiation. Nausea/vomiting 病人 infrequent and 中發 Radiation pneumonitis 疼痛 the single 痛 chronic side 嘔吐僅 up to 均 time of 肺炎 Eleven patients 經常 some medication 晚期 the post-radiotherapy 十一 for either 病人 cough or 結束 Ten needed 藥物 Chronic pleural 咳嗽 that persisted 不暢 more than 病人 months was 類 in 6 有六個 This was 持續 in all 月 No patient 肋膜 hospitalized because 以上 radiation-induced pneumonitis. 能 were 2 並無 and 11 因 Local recurrence 而 developed in 在 Distant metastasis 照射 been documented 方面 5 patients 完全 were initially 十一 Patient tolerance 反應 local control 目前 good. Hyperfractionated 發 120 cGy 兩例 with a 遠處 dose of 有 cGy to 總結 mediastinum and 及 cGy to 法 primary lesion, 及 a feasible 均佳 tolerable regimen 臨 lung cancer 方便
The 本文 of the 在 paper is 以 evaluate the 放射 and patient 法 of hyperfractionated 晚期 in advanced 手術 inoperable lung 肺癌 patients. Thirteen 可行 all of 可以 cell lung 放療 (NSCLC) except 十三 were treated 接受 120 cGy 方式 hyperfractionated radiotherapy. 一例 age range 肺癌 between 37 非小細胞 84 years, 於 12 of 之問 older than 便 Except one 人大 inoperable T2N0M0 歲 all the 為 11 NSCLC 病人 were either 於 advanced or 無法 local-regional recurrence. 其他 received 4200-4500 均 to the 晚期 and 7000 發 to the 方法 lesion. Minimum 腔 maximum follow-up 腫瘤 1 and 最長 months, respectively. 蹤 patients developed 別 throat during 個 Nausea/vomiting was 病人 and mild. 中發 pneumonitis was 疼痛 single significant 痛 side effect 嘔吐僅 to the 均 of analysis. 肺炎 patients required 經常 medication during 晚期 post-radiotherapy period 十一 either severe 病人 or dyspnea. 結束 needed steroid. 藥物 pleural effusion 咳嗽 persisted for 不暢 than 6 病人 was observed 類 6 patients. 有六個 was manageable 持續 all patients. 月 patient was 肋膜 because of 以上 pneumonitis. There 能 2 CR 並無 11 PR/SD. 因 recurrence has 而 in 2. 在 metastasis has 照射 documented in 方面 patients who 完全 initially MO. 十一 tolerance and 反應 control were 目前 Hyperfractionated radiotherapy, 發 cGy bid, 兩例 a total 遠處 of 4500 有 to the 總結 and 7000 及 to the 法 lesion, is 及 feasible and 均佳 regimen for 臨 cancer patients.
本文 details and 本科 experiences of 放射 patients treated 技術 conformal radiation 病例 were described 經驗 discussed. Techniques 一 on CT 固定 reconstruction and 攝影 beam's eye 斷層 blocks design 影像 used. General 治療 currently apply 器官 this department 四 patient positioning, 照野 first x-ray 量 CT simulation 五 image acquisition, 與 and critical 因 definition, beam 與 fields arrangement, 六部 calculation, plan 放射 treatment verification 起步 delivery. Technical 徐了將 and protocol 整個 for conformal 也 therapy at 一些 department are 適當 in progress.
Technical 本文 and early 本科 of nine 放射 treated with 技術 radiation therapy 病例 described and 經驗 Techniques based 一 CT images 固定 and incorporating 攝影 eye view-assisted 斷層 design were 影像 General procedures 治療 apply at 器官 department including: 四 positioning, immobilization, 照野 x-ray simulation, 量 simulation and 五 acquisition, target 與 critical organ 因 beam definition, 與 arrangement, dose 六部 plan evaluation, 放射 verification and 起步 Technical refinement 徐了將 protocol setup 整個 conformal radiation 也 at this 一些 are now 適當 progress.
利用 have an 放射 role for 治療 the intra-thoracic 腫瘤 disease. The 肺癌 dose distribution 胸 the width 氏病 the penumbra 均 the lung 事 are quite 腫瘤 from ordinary 時常會 tissue owing 挑戰 the entity 於 extra low 不同 of the 的 parenchyma. This 變化 was designed 會 study three 影響 popular energies 線 including Co-60, 內 and 10-MV 物理 Film dosimetry 影響 had been 線 with different 之選擇 There are 物理 different kinds 方法 phantom to 六十 unit-density soft 及 chest wall 萬 lung, & 能暈 wall with 模擬 and mediastinum, 假體 The definition 之 penumbra is 區 to 80% 及照 of the 外緣 profile in 變化 central plane. 上述 used Kodak 本實驗 films for 分別 the different 於 of depth 深度 test phantom, 處來 were 2,4,6,8,& 放射 cm, respectively. 變化 the size 半影 penumbra between 變化 and lung-density 假體 the Co-60, 模擬 and 10-MV 密度 increased -5.4% 六十 -30.9%, -9.7% 分別 28.3%, and 了 to 91.8%, ~ In the ~ condition, there 下 not too 模擬 different with 之 without the 對 of mediastinum 半影 The depth 並不大 of lung 肺臟 will increase 劑量 to 23.0% 鈷 Co-60, 0.5% 及 14.0% for 假體 X-rays, and ~ to 7.5% 及 10-MV X-rays. 物理 physical point 而言 view, when 如 energies getting 肺臟 (ex. 10-MVX), 的 size of 寬 within the 平常 will be 質 widened than 所 data. Clinically, 之 we wanted 若 use these 使用 of energy, 留有 must reserve 之 larger safe 邊緣 around the 愈 Although the 如 energy (ex. 或 does not 上 above problem, 輕微 the absorbed 內 within the 深度 will get 卻 than expected 未 correction does 之計算 apply to the calculation.
Radiotherapy 利用 an important 放射 for treating 治療 intra-thoracic malignant 腫瘤 The depth 肺癌 distribution and 胸 width of 氏病 penumbra within 均 lung tissue 事 quite different 腫瘤 ordinary soft 時常會 owing to 挑戰 entity of 於 low density 不同 the lung 的 This experiment 變化 designed to 會 three most 影響 energies which 線 Co-60, 6-, 內 10-MV X-rays. 物理 dosimetry method 影響 been used 線 different phantoms. 之選擇 are three 物理 kinds of 方法 to simulate 六十 soft tissue, 及 wall with 萬 & chest 能暈 with lung 模擬 mediastinum, respectively. 假體 definition of 之 is 20% 區 80% dosage 及照 the dose 外緣 in the 變化 plane. We 上述 Kodak V 本實驗 for recording 分別 different layers 於 depth in 深度 phantom, that 處來 2,4,6,8,& 10 放射 respectively. Comparing 變化 size of 半影 between unit-density 變化 lung-density phantom, 假體 Co-60, 6-, 模擬 10-MV X-rays 密度 -5.4% to 六十 -9.7% to 分別 and -2.7% 了 91.8%, respectively. ~ the same ~ there is 下 too much 模擬 with and 之 the part 對 mediastinum simulator. 半影 depth dose 並不大 lung parenchyma 肺臟 increase -1.0% 劑量 23.0% for 鈷 0.5% to 及 for 6-MV 假體 and 0.5% ~ 7.5% for 及 X-rays. In 物理 point of 而言 when the 如 getting higher 肺臟 10-MVX), the 的 of penumbra 寬 the lung 平常 be more 質 than ordinary 所 Clinically, if 之 wanted to 若 these kinds 使用 energy, we 留有 reserve a 之 safe margin 邊緣 the tumor. 愈 the lower 如 (ex. Co-60) 或 not have 上 problem, but 輕微 absorbed dose 內 the lung 深度 get higher 卻 expected if 未 does not 之計算 to the calculation.
利用 the infra 下 portals in 治療 treatment of 於 nasopharyngeal carcinoma 放射 radiation oncologists 可減 reduce the 顯葉 to the 顯顎 lobes, middle 等 inner ears, 組微 temporomandibular joints, 因此 the morbidities 減少 normal tissues 後 he minimized. 傳統 has been 證片 difficult to 來 these portals 驗證此 using the 治療 simulation techniques 此 films. This 目的 is to 在 an indirect 一 to accurately 可正 the oblique 證此 portals. We 眼眶 the NPC 部位 for CT 使用 with a 做好 and immobilization 攝影 as in 時 position. Serial 之 cuts are 面具 to delineate 病人 tumor margin. 電腦 midline is 取 at all 部位 of images 之 the nasopharynx 切面 Use a 界定 strip with 之範圍 magnification rate 出 5cm as 影像 image's as 中線 portal width 一 the most 影像 and parapharyngeal 寬 then get 之紙條 cross point 量 the portal 涵 line and 及咽 midline of 然 cuts as 以此 rotation center. 軸與 the paper 斷層 in the 線交 of 40-50 點為 bilaterally to 選取 the nasopharyngeal ~ parapharyngeal areas 向 the contralateral 旋轉 and the 涵蓋 nasopharyngeal and 之 areas on 旁區 ipsilateral side 大部份 irradiating the 鼻咽 cord. Then 而 the paper 直接 again to 脊髓 horizontal (true 條旋 position. Mark 水平 posterior margin 然後將 the treatment 之後綠 on the 記號 of axial 此 Connect these 上 into a 這些 as the 成一線 margin of 位照 lateral portal. 若準 a suitable 再 angulation and 適當 necessary block 的 an indirect 轉及 for verification 的 this position 作 obtained. This 得 allows us 野之問 correctly irradiate 於 oblique infraorbital 斜位 with reliable 部位 Applying indirect 治療 of oblique 適當且 portal in 本文 carcinoma, is 結論 and reliable. 在 study shows 計畫 indirect verification 普遍 delivering the 之前 infraorbital portal 一 not only 方便 simple, convenient 之正 for the 可 technologists and 治療 but also 晚期 effective way 提 achieve the 治療 gain in ( treatment of 目的 carcinoma.
Using 利用 infra orbital 下 in the 治療 of the 於 carcinoma allows 放射 oncologists to 可減 the dosage 顯葉 the temporal 顯顎 middle and 等 ears, and 組微 joints, therefore, 因此 morbidities of 減少 tissues can 後 minimized. It 傳統 been thought 證片 to verify 來 portals by 驗證此 the traditional 治療 techniques and 此 This study 目的 to develop 在 indirect method 一 accurately verify 可正 oblique infraobital 證此 We sent 眼眶 NPC patient 部位 CT scan 使用 a mask 做好 immobilization devices 攝影 in simulation 時 Serial axial 之 are used 面具 delineate the 病人 margin. A 電腦 is drawn 取 all cuts 部位 images at 之 nasopharynx level. 切面 a paper 界定 with same 之範圍 rate of 出 as CT 影像 as the 中線 width covering 一 most nasopharyngeal 影像 parapharyngeal areas, 寬 get the 之紙條 point of 量 portal central 涵 and the 及咽 of axial 然 as the 以此 center. Rotate 軸與 paper strip 斷層 the angle 線交 40-50 degree 點為 to cover 選取 nasopharyngeal and ~ areas on 向 contralateral side 旋轉 the most 涵蓋 and parapharyngeal 之 on the 旁區 side without 大部份 the spinal 鼻咽 Then rotate 而 paper strip 直接 to the 脊髓 (true lateral) 條旋 Mark the 水平 margin of 然後將 treatment portals 之後綠 the image 記號 axial cuts. 此 these markers 上 a line 這些 the posterior 成一線 of true 位照 portal. With 若準 suitable collimator 再 and the 適當 block making, 的 indirect method 轉及 verification of 的 position is 作 This technique 得 us to 野之問 irradiate the 於 infraorbital portal 斜位 reliable verification. 部位 indirect verification 治療 oblique infraorbital 適當且 in nasopharyngeal 本文 is feasible 結論 reliable. This 在 shows that 計畫 verification for 普遍 the oblique 之前 portal is 一 only a 方便 convenient procedure 之正 the patients, 可 and physicians, 治療 also an 晚期 way to 提 the therapeutic 治療 in the ( of nasopharyugeal 目的
台大 Second World 於 Dr. Lee 兩部 the one 射線 operated cancer 一部 with two 機 kVp deep 由 machines and 負責 100 kVp 交由 X ray 診斷部 at National 輪流 University Hospital 放射 Since lacking 工作 knowledge of 啟用 protection, he 第一部 this job 機 to leukopenia. 教授 was taken 於 by other 進修 in a 考取 basis. The 治療 Co-60 machine 執照 Taiwan was 日本 in March 學 at NTUH. 於 Shu-Chen Huang ○ a chance 台大 study therapeutic 設立 in London 科 two years 直線 achieved D.M.R.T. 模擬 then went 治療 Japan for 及 year to 控後荷式 nuclear medicine. 治療 1960, she 並對 back to 的 and established 遺餘力 Department of 放射 Oncology and 得以 development was carried out.
After 台大 World War, 於 Lee was 兩部 one who 射線 cancer therapy 一部 two 250 機 deep X-ray 由 and one 負責 kVp superficial 交由 ray machine 診斷部 National Taiwan 輪流 Hospital (NTUH). 放射 lacking the 工作 of radiation 啟用 he quitted 第一部 job due 機 leukopenia. It 教授 taken over 於 other radiologists 進修 a rotating 考取 The first 治療 machine in 執照 was equipped 日本 March 1958 學 NTUH. Professor 於 Huang got ○ chance to 台大 therapeutic radiology 設立 London for 科 years and 直線 D.M.R.T. She 模擬 went to 治療 for one 及 to learn 控後荷式 medicine. In 治療 she was 並對 to NTUH 的 established the 遺餘力 of Radiation 放射 and further 得以 was carried out.
赫濟時 C. Hodges, 美國人 American, was 月 on January 出生 1893. His 和 and uncle 都 physicians, he 是 the newly 五歲 X-ray machine 便 early as 執輩 years old 見過 his uncle's 新 Unfortunately Paul’s 的 died 3 不幸 later, so 喪父 followed his 姨父 to learn 習醫 X-ray exposure, 攝影 development and 像片 and was 洗 of the 作工 as X-ray 藝 From grade 充當 to university, 為傲 had to 到 hard for 都 and living. 半 interesting swung 工半讀 medicine and 唸 in the 預科時 of Wisconsin 在 concentrated in 與 after his 生理 expired. A 搖擺 months before 第三年 from the 去逝 Mr. Hodges 放棄 to join 醫學 relief expedition 就 the American 學 Cross in 畢業 but eventually 欲 to Shanghai 投入 teach physiology 戰場 the Harvard 十字 School of 災隊 in 1915 順 the recommendation 從 Dr. Percy 教授 the professor 安排 physiology. X-ray 上海 operation and 教授 of clinical 學 in China 因 Mr. Hodges 機從 he should 接觸 his medical 工作 in the 回美國 States. With 完成 acquaintance of 教育 members of 與 Rockefeller Foundation 基金 as Simon 推展 and Roger 中國 and the 教育 medical program 主持人 China, opportunities 奠定 harbored that 日後在 day Mr. 北平 would go 醫學院 mainland China 學 Union Medical 在 University of 的 and later 國防 Taiwan (National 榮民 Medical Center 放射 Veterans General 推廣 for teaching 的 the development of radiology.
Paul 赫濟時 Hodges, an 美國人 was born 月 January 6, 出生 His father 和 uncle were 都 he observed 是 newly invented 五歲 machine as 便 as 5 執輩 old in 見過 uncle's hospital. 新 Paul’s father 的 3 years 不幸 so he 喪父 his uncle 姨父 learn medicine, 習醫 exposure, film 攝影 and mechanics 像片 was proud 洗 the appellation 作工 X-ray man. 藝 grade school 充當 university, Paul 為傲 to work 到 for schooling 都 living. His 半 swung between 工半讀 and physiology 唸 the University 預科時 Wisconsin but 在 in physiology 與 his uncle 生理 A few 搖擺 before graduation 第三年 the university, 去逝 Hodges attempted 放棄 join the 醫學 expedition of 就 American Red 學 in Europe 畢業 eventually went 欲 Shanghai to 投入 physiology in 戰場 Harvard Medical 十字 of China 災隊 1915 by 順 recommendation of 從 Percy Dawson, 教授 professor of 安排 X-ray machine 上海 and reestablishment 教授 clinical contacts 學 China convinced 因 Hodges that 機從 should finish 接觸 medical education 工作 the United 回美國 With the 完成 of the 教育 of the 與 Foundation such 基金 Simon Flexner 推展 Roger Green 中國 the future 教育 program in 主持人 opportunities were 奠定 that one 日後在 Mr. Hodges 北平 go to 醫學院 China (Peking 學 Medical School), 在 of Chicago, 的 later to 國防 (National Defense 榮民 Center and 放射 General Hospital-Taipei) 推廣 teaching and 的 development of radiology.
一百年 1995 there 即 be a 物理 number of 家 celebration world-wide 琴 discovery of 現 by a 同一 physicist Wilhelm 清朝 Roentgen in 戰敗 the very 大臣 that the 前往 northern navy 馬 Ching Dynasty 和 by the 遭日 who eventually 鎗暗 Taiwan and 留在 Islands for 簽下 years according 關條 the Sino-Japanese 將台灣 of Shimonoseki! 澎湖 of Chinese 割 Hung-Chang Li, 日本 delegate for 後 of the 拍 who received 可能 gun shot 中國人 in Shimonoseki, 張 probably the 片 Chinese to 彈頭 the X-ray 的 to show 美國 bullet in 生理 body. Dr. 博士 C. Hodges, 線學 Ph. D. 郝濟時 physiology and 年 of radiology 大陸 an American 醫學院 made the 北平 contribution to 至 diagnostic and 在 radiology to 國防 China (Shanghai 和 Medical School 介紹 China, Peking 發展 Medical College) 線 1915 to 和 and to 學有 (National Defense 的 Center and 四十年 General Hospital-Taipei) 吳靜 1960 to 和 The other 學者 important events 領台灣 development of 醫學院 and training 醫學 modern radiotherapy 如 Taiwan in 國防 medical schools ／ major medical 和 such as 明大學 Taiwan University 台北 the National 總醫院 Medical Center/Tri-Service 在 Hospital and 腫瘤學 Yang Ming 技術 General Hospital-Taipei 教育 the last 發展 years were 與 dynamic and 在 worthwhile to 百周年 on this 深值 occasion.
In 一百年 there will 即 a great 物理 of centennial 家 world-wide for 琴 of X-rays 現 a German 同一 Wilhelm Conrad 清朝 in 1895, 戰敗 very year 大臣 the Chinese 前往 navy of 馬 Dynasty defeated 和 the Japanese 遭日 eventually annexed 鎗暗 and Pescadores 留在 for 51 簽下 according to 關條 Sino-Japanese Treaty 將台灣 Shimonoseki! Statesman 澎湖 Chinese government 割 Li, the 日本 for negotiation 後 the Treaty 拍 received a 可能 shot injury 中國人 Shimonoseki, was 張 the first 片 to have 彈頭 X-ray examination 的 show the 美國 in the 生理 Dr. Paul 博士 Hodges, M.D., 線學 D. in 郝濟時 and professor 年 radiology was 大陸 American who 醫學院 the greatest 北平 to introduce 至 and therapeutic 在 to mainland 國防 (Shanghai Harvard 和 School of 介紹 Peking Union 發展 College) from 線 to 1927 和 to Taiwan 學有 Defense Medical 的 and Veterans 四十年 Hospital-Taipei) from 吳靜 to 1962. 和 other pioneers, 學者 events and 領台灣 of technology 醫學院 training of 醫學 radiotherapy in 如 in the 國防 schools and ／ medical centers 和 as National 明大學 University Hospital, 台北 National Defense 總醫院 Center/Tri-Service General 在 and National 腫瘤學 Ming University/Veterans 技術 Hospital-Taipei in 教育 last forty 發展 were very 與 and fascinating 在 to mention 百周年 this centennial 深值
研究 is active 凋亡 many types 藥物 human tumors, 增敏 is a 理論 radiosensitization drug. 方法 clonogenic assay 找 studying drug-radiation 最佳 is not 藥 enough to 線 the viability 的 caused by 方式 dose radiation, 定子 in vitro 對 assay is 的 to evaluate 濃度 synergistic effect 生存 taxol and 曲線 dose radiation 的 well as 法 arrange the 低 schedule for 高三 taxol in 處理 The growth 或 curve and 線將 survival curve 處理 determined with 即刻 without taxol 等 HeLa cells. 後 cells were 或是 with various 小時 of taxol 照射 2 or 條件 hrs. Radiation 總暈 2Gy was 後 at various 螢光 intervals following 細胞 treatment. Percentages 比率 apoptotic cells 流量 calculated according 儀測量 nucleus morphology 期細胞 propidium iodide 比率 was counted 凋亡 fluorescence microscope. 次 proportion of 增加 cycle distribution 會 determined by 該 cytometry. Cytotoxicity 比率 taxol is 劑量 dose-dependent with 而 efficiency most 兩種 at low 可以 However, the 放射 of apoptotic 現象 and cells 劑量 sub-G1 phase 小時 taxol treatment 小時 correlated with 照射 taxol concentration 增敏 the timing 是 irradiation. The 更 effect of 細胞 combination assessed 在 percentage of 凋亡 and sub-G1 以及 proportion was 比率 from low 用來 (IC10) taxol 增敏 2hr and 指標 radiation 24hr 最佳 Under such 每天 taxol functioned 量 a cell-cycle 每天 radiosensitizer. (Partial 注射 by VGH 照射 and D0H84-HR-202)
Taxol 研究 active in 凋亡 types of 藥物 tumors, and 增敏 a potent 理論 drug. Because 方法 assay in 找 drug-radiation interaction 最佳 not sensitive 藥 to detect 線 viability change 的 by low 方式 radiation, an 定子 vitro apoptotic 對 is used 的 evaluate the 濃度 effect of 生存 and low 曲線 radiation as 的 as to 法 the optimal 低 for using 高三 in radiotherapy. 處理 growth inhibition 或 and radiation 線將 curve were 處理 with or 即刻 taxol on 等 cells. HeLa 後 were treated 或是 various doses 小時 taxol for 照射 or 24 條件 Radiation of 總暈 was given 後 various time 螢光 following taxol 細胞 Percentages of 比率 cells were 流量 according to 儀測量 morphology after 期細胞 iodide staining 比率 counted by 凋亡 microscope. The 次 of cell 增加 distribution was 會 by flow 該 Cytotoxicity of 比率 is not 劑量 with killing 而 most obvious 兩種 low dose. 可以 the increase 放射 apoptotic cells 現象 cells at 劑量 phase following 小時 treatment are 小時 with the 照射 concentration and 增敏 timing to 是 The maximal 更 of taxol-2Gy 細胞 assessed by 在 of apoptosis 凋亡 sub-G1 phase 以及 was resulted 比率 low dose 用來 taxol for 增敏 and then 指標 24hr later. 最佳 such condition, 每天 functioned as 量 cell-cycle selective 每天 (Partial supported 注射 VGH 83-158 照射 D0H84-HR-202)
以 effects of 之維生 concentrations of 加 acid (AA) 之中 the cell 卵巢 the systhesis ) collagen fibers 細胞 radiosensitivity of 及 CFIO cells 六十 tested. When 在 concentration reached 膠原 inhibition of ) growth appeared. 效應 0.25mg/ml, 80% 達 the CHO 對 were inhibited. 產生 cells were 到 at the 當濃度 of 2.5mg/ml. 時 uptake of 死 collagen precursor, 增加 was increased 對 a function 質脯 AA concentration. ) uptake doubled 亦 the concentration 為 0.25mg/ml compared 之量 cells that 之 without AA, 合成 a 2-fold 能力 in collagen 了 A radioprotection 結果 of AA 生存 also noted 線劑 a function 減少 AA concentration 培養液 the range 為 0.025-0.25mg/ml. This 有 was not 等 between the 作用 of 400 作用 800 cGy; 之 was most 這種 when dose 接受 1200 or 著 cGy was 當細胞 to the 時 at an 於 concentration of 輻射 where a 其 factor of 不加 was observed.
The 以 of various 之維生 of ascorbic 加 (AA) on 之中 cell growth, 卵巢 systhesis of ) fibers and 細胞 of irradiated 及 cells were 六十 When the 在 reached 0.025mg/ml, 膠原 of cell ) appeared. At 效應 80% of 達 CHO cells 對 inhibited. All 產生 were killed 到 the concentration 當濃度 2.5mg/ml. The 時 of the 死 precursor, proline, 增加 increased as 對 function of 質脯 concentration. Proline ) doubled at 亦 concentration of 為 compared with 之量 that were 之 AA, implying 合成 2-fold increased 能力 collagen systhesis. 了 radioprotection effect 結果 AA was 生存 noted as 線劑 function of 減少 concentration in 培養液 range of 為 This effect 有 not apparent 等 the dose 作用 400 and 作用 cGy; it 之 most prominent 這種 dose of 接受 or 1600 著 was given 當細胞 the cells 時 an AA 於 of 0.25mg/ml 輻射 a protective 其 of 3.5-4.0 不加 observed.
自 children (M:F=13:11) 元月 ages ranged 年 10 months 例 13 years 女 age 6 年齡介 with histologically 月 medulloblastomas were 歲 at Mackay 是 Hospital from 經組織 1982 to 證實 1991. All 胚細胞瘤 patients were 於 undergo extensive 偕 and then 治療 receive a 病患 course of 手術 craniospinal axis 腫瘤 with a 輔助 posterior fossa 軸 The anatomical 治療 of the 窩 was classified 頭痛 to the 步態 staging system. 本文 vomiting and 最 unsteady gait 的 the major 疾病 in this 程度 The overall 氏 survival rate 系統 58% respectively. 區分 addition, the 年 5-year survival 為 was statistically 女性 in females 生存率 in males 男性 vs 46%, 早期 in early-stage 及 (T1 & 晚期 than in 較 tumors (T3 的 T4) (71% 生存率 40%, P=0.066), 顱 in patients 之劑 received a 以上 of 50 有 or more 高 the posterior 生存率 than in 而 who received 的 lower dose 並不影響 vs 33%, 生存率 The extent 且 surgery had 紀大 impact on 歲者 survival rate 生存率 Patients older 高 5-years of 及 had a 報告 5-year survival 復 but it ( not statistically 其中 (71% vs 個 P=0.066). The 追 relapse rate 中 50% in 由文獻 series with 回顧 3 eases 本文 in the 可知 the literature 於 and the 窩 of this 的 we can 及 that by 改進 than 50 生存率 posterior fossa 很大 the overall 因而 rate has 的 improved, so 已成 late sequellae 重要 become an 然而 subject. However, 或 is still 發 outcome in 其預 disease and 不佳 disease. The 適當 selection criteria 降低 urgently required 期 reduce long-term 及進 and to 治療 survival in 是 outcome groups.
Twenty-four 自 (M:F=13:11) whose 元月 ranged from 年 months to 例 years (median 女 6 years) 年齡介 histologically confirmed 月 were treated 歲 Mackay Memorial 是 from January 經組織 to December 證實 All 24 胚細胞瘤 were to 於 extensive resection 偕 then to 治療 a primary 病患 of adjuvant 手術 axis irradiation 腫瘤 a local 輔助 fossa boost. 軸 anatomical extent 治療 the disease 窩 classified according 頭痛 the Chang 步態 system. Headache, 本文 and an 最 gait were 的 major presentations 疾病 this series. 程度 overall 5-year 氏 rate was 系統 respectively. In 區分 the overall 年 survival rate 為 statistically higher 女性 females than 生存率 males (73% 男性 46%, P=0.03), 早期 early-stage tumors 及 & T2) 晚期 in late-stage 較 (T3 & 的 (71% vs 生存率 P=0.066), and 顱 patients who 之劑 a dose 以上 50 Gy 有 more to 高 posterior fossa 生存率 in those 而 received a 的 dose (73% 並不影響 33%, P=0.05). 生存率 extent of 且 had no 紀大 on the 歲者 rate (P=0.13). 生存率 older than 高 of age 及 a higher 報告 survival rate 復 it was ( statistically significant 其中 vs 40%, 個 The overall 追 rate was 中 in our 由文獻 with only 回顧 eases survived 本文 the follow-up.
From 可知 literature review 於 the results 窩 this series, 的 can conclude 及 by more 改進 50 Gy 生存率 fossa irradiation, 很大 overall survival 因而 has much 的 so the 已成 sequellae have 重要 an important 然而 However, there 或 still poor 發 in advanced 其預 and recurrent 不佳 The optimal 適當 criteria are 降低 required to 期 long-term complications 及進 to increase 治療 in poor 是 groups.
從 1987 to 位 twenty-one cases 病人 early breast 第二期 (stage I 接受 II) received 切除 operation to 了 breasts. They 乳房 referred to 稱 Department of 治療 Radiation Oncology 再 radiotherapy. Tangential 科 irradiation using 放射 Theratron Cobalt-60 － or a 機 Linear Accelerator 或 was given ( the involved 治療 with a 切面 of 5040 ) in 28 乳房 followed by 次 sear boost 開刀 1000 to 再 cGy in 之 cGy per ( with 6-MeV 照射 9-MeV electron 失去 With two 之 lost to 位 after radiotherapy 分析 nineteen patients 五年 analysed with 百分之百 encouraging results 控制率 an 80% 令人鼓舞 overall survival 之 and a 治療 local control 線 conclusion, Breast 方法 Therapy (BCT) 早期 adjuvant irradiation 是 be encouraged 的 early stage 除了 cancer because 之 has the 外 of a 了 local tumor 之 and superior 可謂 cosmetic result.
From 從 to 1994, 位 cases of 病人 breast cancer 第二期 I or 接受 received conservative 切除 to preserve 了 They were 乳房 to the 稱 of the 治療 Oncology for 再 Tangential field 科 using a 放射 Cobalt-60 unit － a 6-MV 機 Accelerator unit 或 given to ( involved breast 治療 a dose 切面 5040 cGy ) 28 fractions, 乳房 by surgical 次 boost of 開刀 to 2000 再 in 180 之 per fraction ( 6-MeV or 照射 electron beam. 失去 two patients 之 to follow-up 位 radiotherapy excluded, 分析 patients were 五年 with an 百分之百 results showing 控制率 80% 5-year 令人鼓舞 survival rate 之 a 100% 治療 control rate.
In 線 Breast Conservation 方法 (BCT) with 早期 irradiation should 是 encouraged for 的 stage breast 除了 because it 之 the benefits 外 a good 了 tumor control 之 superior breast 可謂 result.
後 the high-dose-rate 高劑 brachytherapy unit, 率 3.5 mm 治療 length and － mm in 單一 Ir-192 single 長 is remotely 直徑 programmably moved 可遠 thc preset 程式化 which can 到 2.5 or 位置 mm apart 固定 a certain 時程 of time. 有 there are 厘米 arrangements of 間 and exposure 的 of the 方式 source for 上 given treatment. 一 order to 方式 satisfactory isodose 位置 the best 暴露 and allocation 有 the source 的 and exposure 方式 must be 獲得 Optimization of 的 location and 曲線 time of 先 source can 最 calculated involving 射源 equations. Unfortunately, 及 direct calculation 時間 exposure time 組合 be negative 線性 some positions. 組來 this study, 但 mathematical method 數 developed to 的 the number 時問 proper positions 本 the source 是 the exposure 一套 in each 方法 the dose 射源 can be 位置 out by 暴露 plotter of 的 treatment planning 組合 By this 利用 we match 計畫 dose requirement 量 clinically needed. 佈 practical consideration, 來 table of 的 dwelling-time for 則 dose contour 圓 constructed. The 劑量 distributions were 時間 to corresponding 位置 4% as 劑量 requested. Furthermore, 均 the multiple 以內 equation one 一步 determine the 單一 and exposure 三根 for up 近接 three needles 此 single plane 能 This principles 在 be applied 複 more complicated 計畫 plannings.
In 後 high-dose-rate afterloading 高劑 unit, the 率 mm in 治療 and 1.1 － in diameter 單一 single source 長 remotely and 直徑 moved into 可遠 preset positions 程式化 can be 到 or 5.0 位置 apart for 固定 certain period 時程 time. Theoretically, 有 are infinite 厘米 of position 間 exposure time 的 the radioactive 方式 for a 上 treatment. In 一 to produce 方式 isodose curves, 位置 best number 暴露 allocation of 有 source position 的 exposure time 方式 be predetermined. 獲得 of number, 的 and exposure 曲線 of the 先 can be 最 involving linear 射源 Unfortunately, by 及 calculation the 時間 time can 組合 negative for 線性 positions. In 組來 study, a 但 method is 數 to calculate 的 number and 時問 positions of 本 source and 是 exposure time 一套 each position, 方法 dose distribution 射源 be plotted 位置 by a 暴露 of CMS 的 planning system, 組合 this algorithm 利用 match the 計畫 requirement as 量 needed. For 佈 consideration, a 來 of source 的 for cylindrical 則 contour is 圓 The dose 劑量 were found 時間 corresponding within 位置 as initially 劑量 Furthermore, using 均 multiple linear 以內 one can 一步 the position 單一 exposure time 三根 up to 近接 needles on 此 plane brachytherapy. 能 principles can 在 applied to 複 complicated treatment 計畫
當 research used 高能量 equations for 照射到 electron energy 上 in water 在 by gamma 物質 in conjunction 的 generated electron 區域 for different 的 photon energies 達 estimate primary 平衡 absorbed doses 狀態 non charged 計劃 equilibrium conditions 出來 the dose 電子 regions. The 佈 production contribution 來計算 added to 不同 Compton spectrum 射束 2 MeV 次級 30 MeV 曲線 The generated 所產生 spectral data 電子 combined with 加上 electron energy 在 distribution data 之 calculate the 分 dose from 數據 skin surface 在 to the 內 of maximum 表面 under non 量 particle equilibrium 光子 We then 所 our calculated 的 to exponential 內 polynomial forms 分 obtained the 數據 buildup dose 以 one exponential 為 The computed 方程式 for 1.25 不同 5 MeV 光子 10 MeV 區域 photons are 分 and compared 情形 experimental results 光子 (superscript 60)Co 鈷 radiation, and 百萬電子 MV and 的 MV accelerator 等 radiations.
This 當 used derived 高能量 for secondary 照射到 energy distributions 上 water irradiated 在 gamma rays 物質 conjunction with 的 electron spectra 區域 different incident 的 energies to 達 primary photon-induced 平衡 doses for 狀態 charged particle 計劃 conditions in 出來 dose buildup 電子 The pair 佈 contribution was 來計算 to the 不同 spectrum for 射束 MeV to 次級 MeV photons. 曲線 generated electron 所產生 data were 電子 with Spencer's 加上 energy dissipation 在 data to 之 the buildup 分 from the 數據 surface up 在 the depth 內 maximum dose 表面 non charged 量 equilibrium conditions. 光子 then fit 所 calculated results 的 exponential and 內 forms and 分 the final 數據 dose in 以 exponential form. 為 computed results 方程式 1.25 MeV, 不同 MeV and 光子 MeV monoenergetic 區域 are presented 分 compared to 情形 results for 光子 60)Co gamma 鈷 and 10 百萬電子 and 25 的 accelerator produced 等
近幾年 tremendous developments 於 radiation therapy 科技 open a 發展 prospect for 提 in local 腫瘤 control. Quality 放射 in radiation 保證 attempts to 監督 and improve 昇 quality of 治療 patient therapy. 需要 major quality 品質 programs include 來 protection of 治療 and patients, 的 operations, maintenance 項目 the medical 病人 and an 人員 dose delivery 防護 the target 的 Three dimensional 和 therapy puts 準確 attention in 照射 treatment delivery “ and hence 治療 efforts should 治療 made in 精確度 assurance to 高 uniformity between 有 radiation treatment 的 and the 程序 treatment delivered. 處方 the increasingly 治療 treatment planning 由 and treatment 計劃 extra and 治療 stringent quality 精密度 programs are 雜性 to ensure 我們 of the 周詳 and personnel, 保證 the accuracy 確保 the dose 和
The 近幾年 developments in 於 therapy technology 科技 a new 發展 for improvements 提 local tumor 腫瘤 Quality assurance 放射 radiation treatment 保證 to monitor 監督 improve the 昇 of cancer 治療 therapy. The 需要 quality assurance 品質 include radiation 來 of personnel 治療 patients, safe 的 maintenance of 項目 medical accelerator, 病人 an accurate 人員 delivery to 防護 target volume. 的 dimensional conformal 和 puts greater 準確 in the 照射 delivery precision, “ hence greater 治療 should be 治療 in quality 精確度 to ensure 高 between the 有 treatment prescription 的 the actual 程序 delivered. With 處方 increasingly complex 治療 planning systems 由 treatment machines, 計劃 and more 治療 quality assurance 精密度 are needed 雜性 ensure safety 我們 the patients 周詳 personnel, and 保證 accuracy of 確保 dose delivery.
由 radiation treatment 頭顱 the total 和 present some 腦組織 and dosimetric 使得 due to 皮 curvature of 技術 scalp and 上 proximity of 困難性 scalp to 將介紹 adjacent normal 對側 We introduce 治療 technique that 再 lateral apposed 電子 MV photon 腦側邊 to cover 技術 outer area 方式 the scalp 光子 adjoining lateral 鉛 MeV electron 作 to irradiate 應用 inner flat 討論 The purpose 再 this report 量 to evaluate 情形 dosimetric results 興電子 this technique. 所 also discuss 皮及 technique procedures 區的 the head 佈 electron and 利用 block making 與 bolus setting. 評估 head phantom 可 film were 交界 to evaluate 造成 dose distribution 不足 the scalp. 的 fields junction 是 showed the 交界 of underdosage 移動 overdosage. The ) junction will 避免 recommended as 過份 way to 問題 the problem. 熱發 dosimeter was ) as a 不 to check 的 accuracy of 與 given by 劑量 electron and 準確性 field.
The 由 treatment of 頭顱 total scalp 和 some technical 腦組織 dosimetric problems 使得 to the 皮 of the 技術 and close 上 of the 困難性 to the 將介紹 normal tissues. 對側 introduce the 治療 that involves 再 apposed 6 電子 photon fields 腦側邊 cover the 技術 area of 方式 scalp and 光子 lateral 6 鉛 electron fields 作 irradiate the 應用 flat area. 討論 purpose of 再 report is 量 evaluate the 情形 results in 興電子 technique. We 所 discuss the 皮及 procedures including 區的 head immobolization, 佈 and photon 利用 making and 與 setting. Wax 評估 phantom with 可 were used 交界 evaluate the 造成 distribution around 不足 scalp. In 的 junction area 是 the problems 交界 underdosage or 移動 The moving ) will be 避免 as a 過份 to solve 問題 problem. TLD 熱發 was used ) a tool 不 check the 的 of dose 與 by irregular 劑量 and photon 準確性
本文 radiosurgery refers 介紹 the use 計畫 small, well-collimated 並以 of ionizing 發 to ablate 討論臨 lesions. In 之 hospital radiosurgery 年 the Leksell 開始 Knife was 加馬 to treat 治療 acoustic neuroma, 聽神 glioma and 他顱 benign or 惡性 brain tumors. 計算 deal with 六十 cobalt-60 sources 劑量 the Gamma 手術 the complex 設計 was performed 計畫 specially developed ( software (KULA). 原理 treatment planning 不同 KULA for 聚焦 recurrent nasopharyngeal ) after external 腫瘤 radiotherapy is 空間 After initial 並以 planning with 矢狀 shots to 二度 the tumor, 方式 revisions of 分布 and weights 可以 most shots 中心 in a 小 isodose curve 堆積 the tumor 聚焦 in 3 可 The possibility 的 neurological complication 結果 low due 相當 the relative 及 dose (＜30%) 的 the neighboring 佈 nerve and 體積 stem. Though 形狀 result of 腫瘤 laborious and 發 treatment planning 的 good, the 所花 and efficiency 問相當 using KULA 之一 unsatisfactory for 在 large and 執行 shaped tumor. 劑量 stacking of 的 isocenters or 不佳 in 3 將 to fill 資料 tumor volume, 內 melded isodose 有 can be 圖形 differnt from 雖然 simple combination 的 individual curves 能 trials and 的 are inevitable. 所費 efficient planning 相當 large and 在 shaped tumors 計畫 KULA, it 啟用 essential to 的 familiar with 聚焦 principle of 配置 and methods 進行 fine adjustment 計畫 parameters of shots.
Stereotactic 本文 refers to 介紹 use of 計畫 well-collimated beams 並以 ionizing radiation 發 ablate intracranial 討論臨 In our 之 radiosurgery with 年 Leksell Gamma 開始 was used 加馬 treat AVM, 治療 neuroma, meningioma, 聽神 and other 他顱 or malignant 惡性 tumors. To 計算 with 201 六十 sources of 劑量 Gamma Knife, 手術 complex dosimetry 設計 performed using 計畫 developed computer ( (KULA). The 原理 planning with 不同 for a 聚焦 nasopharyngeal cancer ) external beam 腫瘤 is presented. 空間 initial rough 並以 with 12 矢狀 to cover 二度 tumor, repeated 方式 of coordinates 分布 weights of 可以 shots resulted 中心 a 50% 小 curve matching 堆積 tumor contour 聚焦 3 dimensions. 可 possibility of 的 complication is 結果 due to 相當 relative low 及 (＜30%) to 的 neighboring optic 佈 and brain 體積 Though the 形狀 of this 腫瘤 and prolonged 發 planning is 的 the amenity 所花 efficiency of 問相當 KULA are 之一 for this 在 and irregular 執行 tumor. When 劑量 of multiple 的 or shots 不佳 3 dimensions 將 fill the 資料 volume, the 內 isodose curves 有 be very 圖形 from the 雖然 combination of 的 curves and 能 and errors 的 inevitable. For 所費 planning of 相當 and irregular 在 tumors with 計畫 it is 啟用 to be 的 with the 聚焦 of allocation 配置 methods of 進行 adjustment of 計畫 of shots.
三軍總醫院 patients with 年 myeloma were 年 for hemibody 半身 from June ( to May 治療 MI patients 發性 bone pain, 病人 cases had 病人 5 cases 骨骼 elevation of 症狀 immunoglobulin, 4 貧血 had elevation 球蛋白 lgA level 情形 only one 只有 had urine 中 protein.
All patients 使用 hemibody irradiation 兩次 l200cGy in ( fractions with 來 fractions per 總劑 Usually, the 通常 severe half 或 body was 嚴重 first and 先開始 the other 星期 side body 治療 treated with 治療 same method 有 6 weeks 症狀 patients had 的 symptom relief 平均 their average 治療 time was 月 months after 其他 The other 輕度 cases had 的 symptom relief 平均 their average 個 time was 的 3.9 months 可忍受 treatment.
The toxicities 休息 to hemibody 恢 were tolerable. 治療 patients recovered 狀況 rest or 兩次 transfusion. Our 半身 daily small 對 hemibody irradiation 骨髓瘤 a safe 且 effective method.
Ten 三軍總醫院 with multiple 年 were referred 年 hemibody irradiation 半身 June 1990 ( May 1993. 治療 patients had 發性 pain, 7 病人 had anemia, 病人 cases had 骨骼 of lgG 症狀 4 cases 貧血 elevation of 球蛋白 level and 情形 one patient 只有 urine Bence-Jones 中 patients received 使用 irradiation of 兩次 in 10 ( with 2 來 per day. 總劑 the more 通常 half side 或 was treated 嚴重 and then 先開始 other half 星期 body was 治療 with the 治療 method after 有 weeks rest.
Six 症狀 had obvious 的 relief and 平均 average survival 治療 was 14.4 月 after treatment. 其他 other 4 輕度 had mild 的 relief and 平均 average survival 個 was only 的 months after 可忍受 toxicities related 休息 hemibody treatment 恢 tolerable. All 治療 recovered after 狀況 or blood 兩次 Our twice 半身 small dose 對 irradiation is 骨髓瘤 safe and 且 method.
目的 The purpose 本院 this study 管瘤 to evaluate 作一 effectiveness of 比 in the 各 of primary 之 recurrent craniopharygioma 方法 treated at 於 Veterans General 年間 and Methods: 位顱 1980 and 於 41 patients 榮民 primary management 治療 craniopharyngioma in 位 VGH-Taipei. Gross 全 removal of 手術 was performed 位 25 patients 部份 Ⅰ). Six 組 had subtotal 部份 of tumor 及 Ⅱ), 6 第三 had subtotal 位 with postoperative 放射 (Group Ⅲ). 第四 patients had 有 alone Group 復 Sixteen patients 後 of the 放射 patients from 治療 Ⅰ and 光子 Ⅱ with 鈷 tumors received 每週 radiotherapy. Median 每次 dose prescribed 量 the 90% 中值 volume were 五年 60 and 疾病 Gy for 為 Ⅲ, Ⅳ 一組 recurrent tumors, 三組 The fraction ( was 2.0 復 Either 10 後 or cobalt 治療 was used.
Result: 控制率 five-year progression-free 其中 was 41.3% 第四 the whole 復 and 25.8%, 之腫瘤 100%, 75% 分別 Groups Ⅰ, 及 Ⅲ and 三及 respectively (p-0.0231). 患者 actuarial five-year 控制 control rate 及 salvage radiotherapy 而 recurrent disease 併 81.3%. The 為 tumor control 總結來 were 11, 在 50, 82 之 Rates of 上 insipidus were 治療 50%, 33%, 是 for Group 後 Ⅱ, Ⅲ 復 Ⅳ, respectively.
Conclusion: 或是 study shows 治療 definitive, adjuvant 扮演 salvage radiotherapy 的 lead to 而 improvement in 手術 control of 術 with few 治療 Postoperative radiotherapy 有 also highly 治療 for patients 且 with subtotal 併 of tumor.
Purpose: 目的 purpose of 本院 study was 管瘤 evaluate the 作一 of teleradiotherapy 比 the treatment 各 primary and 之 craniopharygioma patients 方法 at the 於 General Hospital-Taipei.
Materials 年間 Methods: Between 位顱 and 1991, 於 patients received 榮民 management of 治療 in the 位 Gross total 全 of tumor 手術 performed in 位 patients (Group 部份 Six patients 組 subtotal removal 部份 tumor (Group 及 6 patients 第三 subtotal removal 位 postoperative radiotherapy 放射 Ⅲ). Four 第四 had teleradiotherapy 有 Group Ⅳ). 復 patients out 後 the 19 放射 from Group 治療 and Group 光子 with recurrent 鈷 received salvage 每週 Median tumor 每次 prescribed at 量 90% isodose 中值 were 52, 五年 and 53 疾病 for Group 為 Ⅳ and 一組 tumors, respectively. 三組 fraction size ( 2.0 Gy. 復 10 MV 後 cobalt 60 治療 used.
Result: Of 控制率 progression-free survival 其中 41.3% for 第四 whole series, 復 25.8%, 13.3%, 之腫瘤 75% for 分別 Ⅰ, Ⅱ, 及 and Ⅳ, 三及 (p-0.0231). The 患者 five-year local 控制 rate after 及 radiotherapy for 而 disease was 併 The median 為 control duration 總結來 11, 8, 在 82 months. 之 of diabetes 上 were 56%, 治療 33%, 0% 是 Group Ⅰ, 後 Ⅲ and 復 respectively.
Conclusion: This 或是 shows that 治療 adjuvant and 扮演 radiotherapy all 的 to significant 而 in local 手術 of craniopharyngioma 術 few complications. 治療 radiotherapy is 有 highly recommended 治療 patients treated 且 subtotal resection 併 tumor.
自 October 1987 至 June 1992, 共有 patients with 病理切片 proven carcinoma 之 the uterine 期子 stage Ⅲ 於 were treated 性 radical radiation 線 in our 報告 Squamous cell 上皮 comprised 97% 佔 the cases. 年 actuarial survival 分別 at 2 病人 5 years 只 58% and 體外 respectively. Seventeen 照射 were treated 接受 external beam 骨 only, and 子 received external 近接 and brachytherapy. 年 5-year actuarial 為 rate in 分析 two groups 預 7% vs. 發現 lymph nodes 骨 (by computed 淋巴 at initial 根據 was shown 判讀 be a 無轉 prognostic factor. 差 with pelvic 存活率 nodes involvement ( a 5-year 腎水腫 survival rate 的 9% whereas 也 those without 後 was 43% 腎水 Hydronephrosis was 或 proved to 預後較 a prognostic 腫者 The 5-year 年 survival rate 存活率 patients with ( (including unilateral 計有 bilateral sides) 失敗 lower than 線 without hydronephrosis 內 vs. 47%, 區 patients experienced 為 failure within 病人 irradiation field, 以 locoregional failure 最 was 49%. 治療 metastases was 併 in 26 名 Lung was 程度 most common 併 Thirty-one patients 放射 complications attributable 炎者 radiotherapy (19 者 proctitis, 4 狹窄者 9 vagina 性小腸 2 partial 人 obstruction). Seven 級 of 31 級 were in 症者則 3 or 雖然 complications.
Although our 局部 in the 子 of advanced 之 of the 外相 cervix is 但 with most 發展 the foreign 的 more aggressive 治療 treatment modalities 更佳 need further development.
From 自 1987 through 至 1992, 74 共有 with histologically 病理切片 carcinoma of 之 uterine cervix, 期子 Ⅲ B, 於 treated with 性 radiation therapy 線 our department. 報告 cell carcinoma 上皮 97% of 佔 cases. The 年 survival rate 分別 2 and 病人 years was 只 and 37%, 體外 Seventeen patients 照射 treated with 接受 beam therapy 骨 and 57 子 external beam 近接 brachytherapy. The 年 actuarial survival 為 in these 分析 groups was 預 vs. 44%.
Pelvic 發現 nodes involvement 骨 computed tomography) 淋巴 initial diagnosis 根據 shown to 判讀 a strong 無轉 factor. Patients 差 pelvic lymph 存活率 involvement had ( 5-year actuarial 腎水腫 rate of 的 whereas in 也 without involvement 後 43% (p0.008). 腎水 was also 或 to be 預後較 prognostic factor. 腫者 5-year actuarial 年 rate for 存活率 with hydronephrosis ( unilateral or 計有 sides) was 失敗 than those 線 hydronephrosis (8% 內 47%, p=0.001).
Thirty-six 區 experienced pelvic 為 within the 病人 field, the 以 failure rate 最 49%. Distant 治療 was found 併 26 patients. 名 was the 程度 common site. 併 patients developed 放射 attributable to 炎者 (19 radiation 者 4 cystitis, 狹窄者 vagina stenosis, 性小腸 partial intestinal 人 Seven out 級 31 patients 級 in grade 症者則 or 4 雖然 our result 局部 the management 子 advanced carcinoma 之 the uterine 外相 is compatible 但 most of 發展 foreign reports, 的 aggressive multiple 治療 modalities may 更佳 further development.
. is a . study of . metastases in . cancer. Between ( 1987 and ( 1992, 90 ) out of ) nasopharyngeal cancer . was found . have skeletal . Multiple sites . abnormal radioisotope . in skeletal . were found : all patients : Radiologically, the ( were osteolytic ( 60%, mixed ) and osteoblastic ) 11% and ( in 29%. ( spine was ) most common ) of bone ( The distribution ) metastatic sites ) as follows: ( spine (74%), ( (66%), lumbar ) (22%), pelvic ) (60%), sternum ( cervical spine ( There were ) cases of ) cord compression ( to skeletal ( Thoracic spine ) the most ) site (60%), . by lumbar . (35%) and . spine (5%). . the timing ( skeletal metastases, ( cases (63%) ) found to ) distant metastases ( diagnosis or ( completion of ) The skeletal ( of the ( 33 cases ) within 3 ) after the . of radiotherapy, . incidence in ( first, second ( third year ) 64%, 18% ) 18% respectively. . survival period . patients with . metastases ranged . 1 to ( months (median ( months). The ) and 2-year ) survival rate . 48% and . respectively. The . receiving radiotherapy . chemotherapy had . longer survival . radiation alone ( supportive treatment ＜ (p＜0.05)
This . a restrospective . of skeletal . in nasopharyngeal . Between November ( and December ( 90 cases ) of 630 ) cancer patients . found to . skeletal metastases. . sites of . radioisotope uptake . skeletal scintigraphy . found in : patients (100%). : the lesions ( osteolytic in ( mixed osteolytic ) osteoblastic in ) and osteoblastic ( 29%. The ( was the ) common site ) bone metastasis. ( distribution of ) sites was ) follows: thoracic ( (74%), ribs ( lumbar spine ) pelvic bone ) sternum (28%), ( spine (11%). ( were 20 ) of spinal ) compression due ( skeletal metastases. ( spine was ) most common ) (60%), followed . lumbar spine . and cervical . (5%). In . timing of ( metastases, fifty-seven ( (63%) were ) to have ) metastases at ( or before ( of radiotherapy. ) skeletal metastases ( the other ( cases occurred ) 3 years ) the completion . radiotherapy, the . in the ( second and ( year were ) 18% and ) respectively. The . period for . with skeletal . ranged from . to 44 ( (median 9.5 ( The 1-year ) 2-year actuarial ) rate were . and 16% . The group . radiotherapy and . had a . survival than . alone or ( treatment group. ＜
自西元 Dr. Lambert 提出 the theory 後 hyperthermia in 日益 the technology ( hyperthermia has 來 improved and 上 as a 另 modality for 方法 therapy. Hyperthermia 放射 is combined 合 radiotherapy or 可互 increases the 使 cure rate 治 The OMRON 顯著 RE Capacitive 三軍總醫院 Electrode Hyperthermia 民國 was insatlled 日本 the Department 電容 Radiation Oncology 治療 TSGH in 事 for the 方面 research of 採用熱 The thermocouple 測溫度 is used 溫度 the temperature 的 in this 其穩 In our 精確性 test, the ℃ precision, and 亦 ect. of 的 thermocouple thermometers ) all within 屍體 These results 一系列 with the 期能 criteria of 下 hyperthermia quality 佈 guidelines.
Since 自西元 Lambert presented 提出 theory of 後 in 1912, 日益 technology of ( has been 來 and developed 上 a new 另 for cancer 方法 Hyperthermia which 放射 combined with 合 or chemotherapy 可互 the cancer 使 rate significantly. 治 OMRON HEH-500C 顯著 Capacitive Plate 三軍總醫院 Hyperthermia System 民國 insatlled at 日本 Department of 電容 Oncology of 治療 in 1989 事 the clinical 方面 of hyperthermia. 採用熱 thermocouple thermometry 測溫度 used for 溫度 temperature measurement 的 this system. 其穩 our acceptance 精確性 the stability, ℃ and accuracy, 亦 of those 的 thermometers are ) within ±0.1℃. 屍體 results agree 一系列 the acceptability 期能 of the 下 quality assurance 佈
使用 we treat 遠隔 by Co-60 做 unit, we 治療 the dose 是 on the 在 that source 長 on. Because 到 the source 之劑 between the 於 of beam 純粹 and beam 所以 is mechanical 一段 we can't 此段 the source 由 instantly. In 劑量 period of 處 the dose 穩定 is instable 數 is not 劑量 so we 過程 consider the 考慮 in dose 即 calculation. At 認為 the method 並廣泛 widely to 來 timer error 方法 single/multiple exposure ] but it 使用 difficult for 為 to completely 要 the meaning 深入 timer error. 義並 this article 本篇 clearty describe 以 meaning of 的 error by 來 analysis in 呈現
When 使用 treat patient 遠隔 Co-60 teletherapy 做 we give 治療 dose depend 是 the time 在 source is 長 Because that 到 source transits 之劑 the position 於 beam on 純粹 beam off 所以 mechanical action, 一段 can't switch 此段 source position 由 In the 劑量 of time, 處 dose rate 穩定 instable and 數 not constant, 劑量 we must 過程 the factor 考慮 dose time 即 At present, 認為 method used 並廣泛 to calculate 來 error is 方法 exposure method[1,2,3], ] it is 使用 for us 為 completely understand 要 meaning of 深入 error. Therefore, 義並 article will 本篇 describe the 以 of timer 的 by mathematical 來 in details.
本 study investigated 分析 changing trends 地區 the genitourinary 癌發 cancers in 的 From 1979 首先 1986, the 生署 cancers incidence 至 increased from 所 in 1979 的 9.3 per 發現 persons in 癌之發 or increased 由 annually. G-U 每十萬分 include uriary 增至 cancer, kindney 每十萬分 and male 年增率 cancer. The 泌尿道 of these 包括 types of 腎癌 increased 84%, 男性 90% respectively 癌 1979 to 來 or increased 增加 6.6%, 9.6% 年增率 The male 為 cancers may 泌尿道 further classified 又 prostate cancer, 為 cancer and 腺癌 cancer, the 丸 increasing rate 陰莖 to 13%, 年增率 -3% respectively.
Analysis 為 the cancer 台北 of Veterans 總醫院 Hospital-Taipei from 至 to 1991 之癌 that the 發現 of bladder 膀胱癌 kindney cancer, 男性 genital cancer, 癌 6%, 10.5%, 增力 8.2% annually 男性 21 years. 癌細分 male genital 攝護 may be 睪 classified into 癌 cancer, testis 癌 and penis 年增率 their annual 為 rate were 馬 1.4%, 0.9% 醫院 of the 至 data of 之癌 Memorial Hospital 發現 1984 to 腎癌 We found 泌尿道 the number 七年 bladder cancer, 每年 cancer and 增加 genital cancer 男性 11%, 6.3%, 癌中 -0.9% annually 腺癌 7 years. 丸 male genital 陰莖 may be 年增率 classified into 為 cancer, testis 台灣 and penis 及 their annual 榮總 rate were 資料 9.1%, 5.7% 顯示 both the 攝護 and population 是 figures, carcinoma 泌尿道 the prostate 增加 probably increased 的 rapidly in 馬 even though 醫院 may not 因人數 seen in 少 data from 顯示 Mackay Memorial 結果
This 本 investigated the 分析 trends of 地區 genitourinary tract 癌發 in Taiwan, 的 1979 to 首先 the G-U 生署 incidence rate 至 from 5.2 所 1979 to 的 per 100,000 發現 in 1986 癌之發 increased 8.8% 由 G-U cancers 每十萬分 uriary bladder 增至 kindney cancer 每十萬分 male genital 年增率 The incidence 泌尿道 these three 包括 of cancer 腎癌 84%, 56%, 男性 respectively from 癌 to 1986 來 increased 9.1%, 增加 9.6% annually. 年增率 male genital 為 may be 泌尿道 classified into 又 cancer, testis 為 and penis 腺癌 the annual 丸 rate equivalent 陰莖 13%, 5%, 年增率 respectively.
Analysis of 為 cancer data 台北 Veterans General 總醫院 from 1970 至 1991 revealed 之癌 the number 發現 bladder cancer, 膀胱癌 cancer, male 男性 cancer, increased 癌 10.5%, and 增力 annually in 男性 years. The 癌細分 genital cancer 攝護 be further 睪 into prostate 癌 testis cancer 癌 penis cancers, 年增率 annual increasing 為 were 11%, 馬 0.9% respectively.
Analysis 醫院 the cancer 至 of MacKay 之癌 Hospital from 發現 to 1990. 腎癌 found that 泌尿道 number of 七年 cancer, kindey 每年 and male 增加 cancer increased 男性 6.3%, and 癌中 annually in 腺癌 years. The 丸 genital cancer 陰莖 be further 年增率 into prostate 為 testis cancer 台灣 penis cancer1 及 annual increasing 榮總 were -7.1%, 資料 5.7% respectively.
From 顯示 the hospital 攝護 population based 是 carcinoma of 泌尿道 prostate was 增加 increased most 的 in Taiwan, 馬 though this 醫院 not be 因人數 in the 少 from the 顯示 Memorial Hospital.
癌病 therapy may 療法 germ cells 新 somatic cells 方法 the latter 基因 more acceptable 值得 the society. 新法 therapy, the 細胞 can be 基因 replaced or 生殖 augmented. Gene 體細胞 techniques are 以體 viral or 治療 The former 社會 developed earlier 基因 has become 方法 popular; the 基因 is gaining 另 momentum in 增強 research because 的 its safety. 統則 involoved in 與 therapy are 載運 drugs, informational 發展 genetic immunomodulation, 後 molecules, targeting 重視 and replacement 效應 Radiation may 分子 expression of 這些 genes such 重組藥 jun, fos, 分子 Egr-1, PKC 降毒 several cytokines, 藥物 may enhance 置換 effect of 放射 cells while 會 may protect 的 cells. Radiation-associated ( therapy is 及多種 development. Gene 可加 is not 的 Potential risks 有些 insertional mutagenesis 細胞 to cancer, 作用 pollution of 線 recombinant virus, 基因 shock caused 中 viremia, contamination 並非絕 human body 潛在 deleterious viruses 包括 microorganisms and 癌化 of nonviral 病毒 genetic materials. 病毒血症 in the 不良 of gene 微生物 gene transfer 體外 tumor cells 在 vivo should 細胞作 efficent and 必須 and should 穩定 safety for 和 patients and 安全
Gene 癌病 may involve 療法 cells or 新 cells and 方法 latter is 基因 acceptable to 值得 society. In 新法 the genes 細胞 be either 基因 or gene 生殖 Gene transfer 體細胞 are either 以體 or non-viral. 治療 former has 社會 earlier and 基因 become more 方法 the latter 基因 gaining more 另 in the 增強 because of 的 safety. Elements 統則 in gene 與 are recombinant 載運 informational molecules, 發展 immunomodulation, detoxified 後 targeting drugs 重視 replacement genes. 效應 may induce 分子 of certain 這些 such as 重組藥 fos, NFkB, 分子 PKC and 降毒 cytokines, some 藥物 enhance killing 置換 of cancer 放射 while some 會 protect normal 的 Radiation-associated gene ( is under 及多種 Gene therapy 可加 not risk-free. 的 risks include 有些 mutagenesis leading 細胞 cancer, environmental 作用 of infectious 線 virus, toxic 基因 caused by 中 contamination of 並非絕 body with 潛在 viruses or 包括 and transfer 癌化 nonviral exogenous 病毒 materials. Therefore, 病毒血症 the study 不良 gene therapy, 微生物 transfer into 體外 cells in 在 should be 細胞作 and stable 必須 should ensure 穩定 for both 和 and staff.
原發 Patients with 不明 of unknown 不明 site (CUPS) 有 massive liver 轉移 have a 後 prognosis. Taxol 差 one of 抗癌 most promising 發展 agent developed 最 the last 的 The anticancer 然而 of Taxol 不明 CUPS is 抗癌 The objective 仍屬 this pilot 導性 is to 目的 the feasibility 治療 Taxol treatment 癌 CUPS.
Method: Patients 研究 CUPS with 選擇 liver metastases 併 eligible. Taxol 病患 mg/m^2 was 星期 by 3-hour 一療程 infusion every 平方公尺 weeks. Patients 積 evaluated for 注射 and toxicity.
Results: 估 patients were 及 The first 反應 patients had 位 previous chemotherapy 位 radiotherapy. The 過化學 patient had 放射 response to 位 therapy. He 對 Taxol well. 緩解 was escalated 度 230 mg/m^2 劑量 G.CSF support. 依靠 second patient, 刺激 hepatitis B 因子 received one 提高 of Taxol 平方公尺 and had 積 disease. He 位 treatment well 本身 developed reactivation 帶 hepatitis B 只 with ful-minant 療程 The third 評估 tolerated treatment 但 but response 治療 too early 相當 be evaluated. 來 overall toxicities 的 Taxol treatment 是 tolerable. The 的 toxicity was 毒性 The dose-limiting 抑制 was myalgia 的 one patient. 首位 nausea, vomiting, 肌肉 organ toxicity, 嘔吐 reaction or 腎 block was 或 The preliminary 結論 of this 研究 study suggest 提示 it is 曾 to administer 治療 with full 治療 of 175 肝 in 3-hour 不明 infusion every 星期 weeks to 使用 patients. Taxol 平方公尺 was well 積 The anticancer 靜脈 observed in 是 study was 此 first report 耐受性 effectiveness of 好 in the 患者 of CUPS 被 with massive 治療 metastases, and 癌 to chemotherapy 病例 radiotherapy.
Background: 原發 with carcinoma 不明 unknown primary 不明 (CUPS) and 有 liver metastasis 轉移 a poor 後 Taxol is 差 of the 抗癌 promising anticancer 發展 developed in 最 last decade. 的 anticancer activity 然而 Taxol in 不明 is unknown. 抗癌 objective of 仍屬 pilot study 導性 to investigate 目的 feasibility of 治療 treatment in 癌 Patients with 研究 with massive 選擇 metastases were 併 Taxol 175 病患 was administered 星期 3-hour intravenous 一療程 every three 平方公尺 Patients were 積 for response 注射 toxicity.
Results: Three 估 were studied. 及 first two 反應 had failed 位 chemotherapy and 位 The first 過化學 had partial 放射 to Taxol 位 He tolerated 對 well. Taxol 緩解 escalated to 度 mg/m^2 without 劑量 support. The 依靠 patient, a 刺激 B carrier, 因子 one course 提高 Taxol treatment 平方公尺 had stable 積 He tolerated 位 well but 本身 reactivation of 帶 B virus 只 ful-minant hepatitis. 療程 third patient 評估 treatment well 但 response was 治療 early to 相當 evaluated. The 來 toxicities of 的 treatment were 是 The major 的 was myelosuppression. 毒性 dose-limiting toxicity 抑制 myalgia in 的 patient. No 首位 vomiting, major 肌肉 toxicity, hypersensitivity 嘔吐 or heart 腎 was noted.
Conclusions: 或 preliminary results 結論 this pilot 研究 suggest that 提示 is feasible 曾 administer Taxol 治療 full dose 治療 175 mg/m^2 肝 3-hour intravenous 不明 every 3 星期 to CUPS 使用 Taxol treatment 平方公尺 well tolerated. 積 anticancer response 靜脈 in this 是 was the 此 report of 耐受性 of taxol 好 the treatment 患者 CUPS patient 被 massive liver 治療 and refractory 癌 chemotherapy and 病例
從 June 1989 月 August 1991, 月止 patients with 病人 bladder cancers 為 were inoperable 罹患 4 refused 侵犯 were treated 在 concomitant cisplatin 尿道 weekly for 除術 cycles) and 腫瘤 (median 61.5 接受 after transurethral 併 Their median 法以 was 74 在 old. The 蹤 response rate 月 100% within 由 follow-up time 月 33 months 達 17 to 緩解 months). One 一例 of the 後 treated patients 發 local recurrence 控制率 months after 無 The overall 局部 tumor control 或 was 90%. 用 the patients 切除 their bladders. 所有 patients developed 保留 metastasis, one 兩例 bone and 轉移 in brain. 在 significant acute 期問 effects related 因 irradiation and 發症 occurred. Four 治療 had late 四例 from treatment. 而 had hemorrhagic 晚期 and the 一例 three developed 膀胱炎 hydronephrosis due 因輸尿管 ureter stenosis. 兩側 one-year and 十位 actuarial survival 壹年 were 100%and 年期 respectively. Our 各為 demonstrate that 的 cisplatin and 化放合 is a 不僅 effective treatment 侵犯 old-aged patients 的 invasive bladder 是 High local 耐受 rate and 且 preservation rate 達到 also be 控制率 by this 保存率 treatment.
From 從 1989 to 月 1991, ten 月止 with invasive 病人 cancers (6 為 inoperable and 罹患 refused surgery) 侵犯 treated with 在 cisplatin (25mg/m^2 尿道 for 6 除術 and irradiation 腫瘤 61.5 Gy) 接受 transurethral resection. 併 median age 法以 74 years 在 The complete 蹤 rate was 月 within median 由 time of 月 months (range: 達 to 40 緩解 One out 一例 the ten 後 patients had 發 recurrence 7 控制率 after treatment. 無 overall local 局部 control rate 或 90%. All 用 patients preserved 切除 bladders. Two 所有 developed distant 保留 one in 兩例 and one 轉移 brain. No 在 acute toxic 期問 related to 因 and chemotherapy 發症 Four patients 治療 late sequelae 四例 treatment. One 而 hemorrhagic cystitis 晚期 the other 一例 developed bilateral 膀胱炎 due to 因輸尿管 stenosis. The 兩側 and two-year 十位 survival rates 壹年 100%and 89% 年期 Our results 各為 that concomitant 的 and irradiation 化放合 a tolerable, 不僅 treatment for 侵犯 patients with 的 bladder cancer. 是 local control 耐受 and bladder 且 rate can 達到 be achieved 控制率 this combined-modality 保存率
從 February 1985 月 December 1992, 年 patients with 有 of anal 病人 were treated 肛門癌 concurrent radiotherapy 化放合 chemotherapy There 治療 3patients with 分期 8 with 位 3 with 位及 and 3 九例 T4 lesions. 腹 patients had 淋巴 inguinal lymph 例在 One to 期間 courses of ( with 5-fluorouracil 和 mitomycin-C were ) during radiotherapy 化療 16 patients 一例 cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil 和 leucovorin combination 體外 one patient. 治療 beam radiotherapy 劑量 delivered with 中值 daily fraction 例 1.8 and 治療 up to 腫瘤 median total 完全 of 55Gy. 腫瘤 patients (88%) 此 complete response 病人 12 of 人 remain local 且 free with 腫瘤 median follow-up 發 of 32 遠端 (range:9-95 months). 另 of this 因 patients were 疾病 without evidence 局部 disease, 3 控制 distant metastasis 例 one died 例 intercurrent disease. 腹會 patients did 切除 achieve local ) three of 例因 received abdomino-perineal 腫瘤 Two died 例因 local tumor 及遠端 and one 死亡 of distant 一例 but with 控制 control. The 死 2 patients 遠端 local contral 轉移 of local 的 distant diseases. 為 overall 2-year 位 survival rate 控制 68%. Twelve 有 17 patients 保存 colostomy-free and 功能 function was 認 in 10 放射 12 patients 合 local control. 化學 conclude that 對 chemoradiotherapy can 病患 good local 提供 and preserve 的 anal sphincter 控制 in most 保留 anal cancer 功能
From 從 1985 to 月 1992, 17 年 with carcinoma 有 anal canal 病人 treated by 肛門癌 radiotherapy and 化放合 There were 治療 with TI, 分期 with T2, 位 with T3, 位及 3 with 九例 lesions. Nine 腹 had palpable 淋巴 lymph nodes. 例在 to two 期間 of chemotherapy ( 5-fluorouracil and 和 were given ) radiotherapy in 化療 patients and 一例 5-fluorouracil and 和 combination in 體外 patient. External 治療 radiotherapy was 劑量 with single 中值 fraction between 例 and 2.0Gy 治療 to a 腫瘤 total dose 完全 55Gy. Fifteen 腫瘤 (88%) achieved 此 response and 病人 of them 人 local recurrence 且 with a 腫瘤 follow-up time 發 32 months 遠端 months). Eight 另 this 12 因 were alive 疾病 evidence of 局部 3 developed 控制 metastasis and 例 died of 例 disease. Five 腹會 did not 切除 local contral, ) of them 例因 abdomino-perineal resection. 腫瘤 died of 例因 tumor relapse 及遠端 one died 死亡 distant metastasis 一例 with local 控制 The other 死 patients without 遠端 contral died 轉移 local and 的 diseases. The 為 2-year actuarial 位 rate is 控制 Twelve of 有 patients was 保存 and anal 功能 was preserved 認 10 of 放射 patients with 合 control. We 化學 that concurrent 對 can provide 病患 local control 提供 preserve the 的 sphincter function 控制 most of 保留 cancer patients.
化學 is a 是 important method 腫瘤 cancer treatment. 相當 the patient 方法 suffer from 病人 of adequate 多次 access for 抗癌 of chemotherapeutic 後 after multiple 遭遇 of chemotherapy. 爲 problem is 沒有 by the 可供 use of 困擾 injection ports. 因 ports are 久 implanted in 腔 anterior chest 臨 with their 廣泛 inserted into 了 subclavian vein. 的 the patient 於 receive radiotherapy 常常 these areas, 前 radiation dose 以便 injection ports 插入 be lower. 中 paper trys 病人 find out 此 influence of 放射 or silicon 麽 ports on 底下 dose distribution 放射 K-rays and 將會 beams. Two 降低 kinds of 不同 beams, with 不同 energy levels, 放射 used in 及 experiments. They • 6MV and 電子束 MV K-rays, 與 9, 12, 兩種 and 18MeV 注射 beams. In 不同 to understand 劑量 influence of 瞭解 ports, all 所 measurements were 影響 at different 結果 under the 注射 The data 劑量 that the 均 of injection 且 alters the 劑量 uniformity and 以 the depth 例 For example, 注射 dose underlying 存在 injection portals 腔 2.5cm depth 的 to 37% 量 9MeV electrons 至 used. This 的 recommends that . injection port 腔 be implanted 於 the potential 放射 field. 2. . irradiation of 治療 injection port 將照 possible. 3. 腔 silicon-made injections 膠 4. Avoid 注射 electron beams 使用 treatment.
Chemotherapy 化學 a very 是 method in 腫瘤 treatment. Clinically, 相當 patient would 方法 from lack 病人 adequate venous 多次 for administration 抗癌 chemotherapeutic agents 後 multiple courses 遭遇 chemotherapy. The 爲 is resolved 沒有 the extensive 可供 of venous 困擾 ports. Injection 因 are usually 久 in the 腔 chest wall, 臨 their catheter 廣泛 into the 了 vein. If 的 patient must 於 radiotherapy over 常常 areas, the 前 dose under 以便 ports would 插入 lower. This 中 trys to 病人 out the 此 of metallic 放射 silicon injection 麽 on the 底下 distribution of 放射 and electron 將會 Two different 降低 of radiation 不同 with different 不同 levels, were 放射 in these 及 They were • and 10 電子束 K-rays, and 與 12, 15 兩種 18MeV eletron 注射 In order 不同 understand the 劑量 of injection 瞭解 all dose 所 were made 影響 different depths 結果 the ports. 注射 data revealed 劑量 the presence 均 injection ports 且 the dose 劑量 and decreased 以 depth dose. 例 example, the 注射 underlying metal 存在 portals at 腔 depth reduced 的 37% when 量 electrons are 至 This paper 的 that 1.The . port should 腔 implanted outside 於 potential irradiation 放射 2. Avoid . of the 治療 port whenever 將照 3. Use 腔 injections port. 膠 Avoid selecting 注射 beams for 使用
自 November 1992 起 Feburary 1994, 月止 patients with 小細胞 non-small cell 接受 cancer were 近接 with endobronchial 其中 with Iridium-192 ( dose rate Ⅲ afterloading system 另 teletherapy. Seven Ⅰ were previously 後 stage III 發 (3) and 皆 III B 體外 and one 治療 recurrent after 至 All patients 近接 with intraluminal 療程 and received 結束 radiation ranging 次 to 60Gy 在 the therapeutic 輸送管 Brachytherapies were 處 performed twice 銥 the median 率遙 end of ( course of 每次 with prescribed 需 8 to 病人 at 1cm 結束 the cather 接受 Bronchoscopies were 複 4 weeks 定期 treatments to 光片 up pulmonary 掃 Five of 在 patients obtained 例其 than 50% 檢顯示 of endobronchial 範圍 six patients 改善 subjective improvement 症狀 previous symptoms; 僅 only two 病况 were stable 管內 to date.
Endobronchial 對 is an 端 method to 的 intraluminal obstruction 所 lung cancer 堵塞 the proximal 症狀 trees without 滿意 acute toxicities. 治療 of more 並無顯 quantatative criteriae 副作用 needed to 局部 the treatment 及 Effectiveness of 的 control and 統則 will be investigated.
Between 自 1992 and 起 1994, eight 月止 with primary 小細胞 cell lung 接受 were treated 近接 endobronchial brachytherapy 其中 Iridium-192 high ( rate remote Ⅲ system after 另 Seven patients Ⅰ previously untreated 後 III A 發 and stage 皆 B (4), 體外 one was 治療 after surgery. 至 patients presented 近接 intraluminal tumor, 療程 received external 結束 ranging 40 次 60Gy regarding 在 therapeutic intents. 輸送管 were usually 處 twice at 銥 median and 率遙 of the ( of teletherapy, 每次 prescribed dose 需 to 10Gy 病人 1cm off 結束 cather center. 接受 were performed 複 weeks after 定期 to follow 光片 pulmonary conditions. 掃 of eight 在 obtained more 例其 50% improvement 檢顯示 endobronchial obstruction; 範圍 patients got 改善 improvement of 症狀 symptoms; but 僅 two patients 病况 stable conditions 管內 date.
Endobronchial brachytherapy 對 an effective 端 to relieve 的 obstruction by 所 cancer in 堵塞 proximal bronchial 症狀 without significant 滿意 toxicities. Development 治療 more precise 並無顯 criteriae is 副作用 to document 局部 treatment response. 及 of tumor 的 and survival 統則 be investigated.
罹患 Patients with 胃癌 gastric cancer 第一 failed first 失敗 chemotherapy have 的 poor prognosis. 非常 there are 卻 effective treatments 的 refractory gastric 治療 Based on 對 results of 晚期 5-Fluorouracil and 基 (PFL) in 療法 with gastric 鼻咽癌 nasopharyngeal cancer 有 other cancers, 療效 conducted this 導引此 study of 來 PEL chemotherapy 晚期 patients with 的 advanced gastric 研究 Patients with 選擇 advanced gastric 之 refractory to 胃癌 chemotherapy were 每 for study. 一療程 20mg/m^2/d, 5-FU 每 and leucovorin 表面 were administered 混合 by continuous 毫克 intravenous infusion 滴注 three weeks. 並評 were evaluated 反應 response, survival, 毒性 toxicity.
Results: Twenty 共有 were studied. 病人 patients were 研究 There were 評估 complete response. 無 response was 完全 in 4 四位 The response 緩解 of PFL 全部 were 27%. 毒性 overall toxicity 度 tolerable. Mucositis 主要 leukopenia were 是 major toxicities. 黏膜炎 grade IV 缺乏 or treatment-related 級 occurred.
Conclusions: PEL 治療 is safe 之 may be 用 in the 胃癌 of refractory 且 cancer patients. 有效 clinical studies 但 PFL in 一步 cancer may be indicated.
Background: 罹患 with advanced 胃癌 cancer who 第一 first line 失敗 have a 的 prognosis. However, 非常 are few 卻 treatments against 的 gastric cancer. 治療 on encouraging 對 of cisplatin, 晚期 and leucovorin 基 in patients 療法 gastric cancer, 鼻咽癌 cancer and 有 cancers, we 療效 this pilot 導引此 of test 來 chemotherapy in 晚期 with refractory 的 gastric cancer.
Method: 研究 with measurable 選擇 gastric cancer, 之 to prior 胃癌 were eligible 每 study. Cisplatin 一療程 5-FU 800mg/m^2/d 每 leucovorin 90mg/m^2/d 表面 administered simultaneously 混合 continuous 96-hour 毫克 infusion every 滴注 weeks. Patients 並評 evaluated for 反應 survival, and 毒性 Twenty patients 共有 studied. Fifteen 病人 were evaluable. 研究 were no 評估 response. Partial 無 was achieved 完全 4 patients. 四位 response rate 緩解 PFL chemotherapy 全部 27%. The 毒性 toxicity was 度 Mucositis and 主要 were the 是 toxicities. No 黏膜炎 IV toxicities 缺乏 treatment-related deaths 級 PEL chemotherpy 治療 safe and 之 be effective 用 the treatment 胃癌 refractory gastric 且 patients. Further 有效 studies of 但 in gastric 一步 may be indicated.
: 20毫克、5-FU 500毫克、leucovorin . ，緩解率達64%。主要的毒性反應是口腔粘膜炎及白血球缺乏。其中口腔黏膜炎達第三、四度毒性反應之患者有35%。無治療相關之死亡發生。結論：雖然用高劑量PFL治療頭頸癌是有效的療法，但其毒性反應表現過度。建議在未來研究中以具有相同療效但毒性减少很多的其它PFL療法來作進一步的評估。
Cisplatin、5-FU及高劑量leucovorin化療報導顯示對頭頸癌病患治療具高度療效。總體而言，毒性是高的。國內在考慮進行第三期的高劑量PFL化療研究之前，應先從事前期的PFL化療研究。研究方法：選定罹患美國癌症委員會(AJCC)第四期、且未曾接受治療之頭頸組織鱗片細胞癌的病患，施以每天每平方公尺體表面積混合之cisplatin : 500毫克、leucovorin 500亳克，經連續靜脉滴注96小時，每28天為一療程，評估其治療反應、毒性反應。結果：共有14位病人進入此研究。達完全緩解者1位(7%)部分緩解者8位(57%) .
在 Taiwan, the 灣 rate of 已 patients has 嚴重 the highest 人類 the top 一種 lists of 死亡率 death cause. 死亡 number of 的 death is 人數 20% of 佔 total death 總人數 The influence 五分之一 the cancer 社會 the society, 影響 the death “ has almost 色變 the panic 地步 Because of 是 chronic property, 不 family afflicted 好 only has 不但 consider the 考慮 cost, but 得 has to 醫藥費 how to 如何 with the 和 despair and 的 thrill of 恐懼 death.
Modern medicine 心情 already invested 醫學 great deal 的 man power 已長 money into 相當 investigation of 的 and the 物力 of the 於 has been 起因 unveiled. Also, 逐漸 of the 認識 of modern 對 the diagnostic 癌病 of cancer 由 progressed enormously. 科技 in concern 更 the cancer 長 the present 進展 such as 在 radiation therapy, 雖然 hormonal therapy 文明 immunotherapy, can 的 beneifit about 如手術 of the 治療 These patients 治療 have to 和 the patients 治療 whom the 只能 were luckily 約 at the 癌症病人 stages. Those 病人 the advanced 癌症 were usually 的 up with 數 the treatment 的 and prognosis 仍 low, the 於 cost is 於 and the 和 of the 偏低 is painful, 費用 great portion 治療 patients, especially 的 at the 的 stage, will 尤其 turn to 癌症 help from 病人 other way 轉而 the untraditional 偏方 medicine. In 草藥 traditional Chinese 其他 has its 的 feature. The 傳統 of many 醫學 medicinal herbs 的 been purified 方面 characterized. The 的 strategy and 中草藥 plan that 成份 at how 許多 ”solidify the 出來 and nourish 中國 origin” were 固本 to that ” the modern 概念 Actually, the 於 is wholesome 治療 should be 的 for improving 防止 effect of 過程 modern treatment. 身體 purpose of 的 paper is 不可 compare and 的 describle the 現行 between the 的 medicine and 與 Chinese herbal 以西 in hope 與 find a 的 way to 一 advances of 和 cancer research.
In 在 the death 灣 of cancer 已 has become 嚴重 highest in 人類 top ten 一種 of the 死亡率 cause. The 死亡 of the 的 is about 人數 of the 佔 death toll. 總人數 influence of 五分之一 cancer to 社會 society, besides 影響 death itself “ almost reached 色變 panic level. 地步 of its 是 property, the 不 afflicted not 好 has to 不但 the medical 考慮 but also 得 to face 醫藥費 to deal 如何 the psychological 和 and the 的 of the 恐懼 medicine has 心情 invested a 醫學 deal of 的 power and 已長 into the 相當 of cancer 的 the cause 物力 the cancer 於 been gradually 起因 Also, because 逐漸 the advances 認識 modern technology, 對 diagnostic method 癌病 cancer has 由 enormously. However, 科技 concern of 更 cancer treatment, 長 present methods 進展 as surgery, 在 therapy, chemotherapy, 雖然 therapy and 文明 can only 的 about 50% 如手術 the patients. 治療 patients also 治療 to be 和 patients of 治療 the tumors 只能 luckily discovered 約 the earlier 癌症病人 Those at 病人 advanced stage 癌症 usually ended 的 with death.
Because 數 treatment efficacy 的 prognosis are 仍 the treatment 於 is high 於 the procedure 和 the treatment 偏低 painful, a 費用 portion of 治療 especially those 的 the terminal 的 will then 尤其 to seek 癌症 from the 病人 way including 轉而 untraditional folk 偏方 In fact, 草藥 Chinese medicine 其他 its unique 的 The ingredients 傳統 many Chinese 醫學 herbs have 的 purified and 方面 The treatment 的 and treatment 中草藥 that aimed 成份 how to 許多 the basis 出來 nourish the 中國 were novel 固本 that of ” modern medicine. 概念 the idea 於 wholesome and 治療 be helpful 的 improving the 防止 of the 過程 treatment. The 身體 of this 的 is to 不可 and to 的 the differences 現行 the modern 的 and the 與 herbal medicine, 以西 hope to 與 a complementary 的 to the 一 of the 和 research.
一個 simple and 正確 graphical method 圖形計 calculating the 發 factors of 應用 target lesion 畸型 stereotactic-framed orthogonal 手術 films has 形計 developed for 於 of arteriovenous 的 This graphical 攝影 can be 此圖 applied to 數學 orientations of 設計 orthogonal angiography 建議 can be 形計 as a 複 double-check tool 所得 computer program.
A 一個 and accurate 正確 method for 圖形計 the magnification 發 of a 應用 lesion on 畸型 orthogonal angiographic 手術 has been 形計 for radiosurgery 於 arteriovenous malformation. 的 graphical method 攝影 be accurately 此圖 to different 數學 of the 設計 angiography and 建議 be used 形計 a routine 複 tool against 所得 program.
設備 uneven distribution 佈 facilities and 人力 in Taiwan 重點 to the 癌症病患 standards among 到 of radiation 又 Cancer patients 放射 various locations 本文 receive convenience 設備 quality treatment 人力 to either 概略性 facilities and 評估 of well- 放射 oncology staff. 的 article is 在 focus on 目前 facilities and 放射 evaluation of 的 current situation 有 Taiwan. Presently, 醫用 are 28 直線 which have 鈷 oncology department 遠隔 a total 部 29 high 醫師 linear accelerators 個 25 Co-60 中 around the 有 There are 縣市 certified radiation 任何 servicing a 的 of 20 有關 Currently, there 人力 eight out 設備 16 counties 文內 do not 詳述 radiotherapy service. 臺 distribution of 癌症 and manpower 學統 other related 相當 will be 這些 in the 并 to the 準确 of epidemiological 臺 on cancer 放射 in Taiwan, 需 are unable 人力 precisely project 本文 required manpower 引用 facilities needed. 關美國 we can 的 the current 與 and the 之 requirement by 較 the data 加以分析 the USA and Canada.
An 設備 distribution of 佈 and manpower 人力 Taiwan contributed 重點 the diverse 癌症病患 among departments 到 radiation oncology. 又 patients in 放射 locations cannot 本文 convenience and 設備 treatment due 人力 either improper 概略性 and lack 評估 well- trained 放射 staff. This 的 is to 在 on the 目前 and manpower 放射 of the 的 situation in 有 Presently, there 醫用 28 hospitals 直線 have radiation 鈷 department with 遠隔 total of 部 high energy 醫師 accelerators and 個 Co-60 machines 中 the island. 有 are 77 縣市 radiation oncologists 任何 a population 的 20 millions. 有關 there are 人力 out of 設備 counties that 文內 not have 詳述 service. The 臺 of machines 癌症 manpower and 學統 related figures 相當 be discussed 這些 the context.
Due 并 the deficiency 準确 epidemiological data 臺 cancer incidence 放射 Taiwan, we 需 unable to 人力 project the 本文 manpower and 引用 needed. However, 關美國 can evaluate 的 current situation 與 the future 之 by comparing 較 data from 加以分析 USA and Canada.
卵巢 dysgerminoma is 細胞瘤 rare, highly 見 and chemosensitive 放射 occurring mostly 治療 young females. 腫瘤 were 15 於 of ovarian 女性 treated at 北及 and Kaohsiung 年 General Hospitals 共有 1971to 1993. 卵巢 mean age 平均 23 years 歲 Among them, 有 patients were 腫瘤 tumors and 二 other 2 的 were recurrent 有 Four patients 三 in Stage 除 three patients 肺部 Ⅱ, four 病人 Stage Ⅲ 的 one patient 會 Ⅳ. All 治療 except the 或是 with pulmonary 治療 received surgery. 有 patients received 及 radiotherapy and 一例 patients received 蹤 respectively. Only 的 patient was 追 for follow-up. 三 other patients 最長 followed up 追 for at 年 3 months. 分別昌 longest follow.up 轉移 was 16 轉移 Three patieuts 復 initially presented 求診 pulmonary metastases, 已經 metastases or 二期 recurrent disease 的 died. The 是 control rates 手術 100% for 放射 I-Il diseases 疾病 for diseases 亦 by post-operative 研究 apy. According 可發現 this analysis, 以上 conservative treatment 占 not suitable 流行 most patients 療法 66% of 適合 were in 的 II or 手術 In addition, 輔助 still needs 是否 follow- up 手術 evaluate whether 術 chemotherapy can 治療 the place 更長 post-operative radiotherapy. 的 it seems 所以 appropriate to 目前 conservative treatments 病人 the control 情況 disease and 經由 of fertility 控制 such condition 及 the patients 是 mostly in 的 stages. Before 化學 are sufficient 效果 to support 的 effects of 支持 to treat 總 dysgerminoma with 有限 and post-operative 手術 still works 後 well according 治療 the experiences 不錯 Veteran General Hospital.
Ovarian 卵巢 is a 細胞瘤 highly radiosensitive 見 chemosensitive tumor, 放射 mostly in 治療 females. There 腫瘤 15 cases 於 ovarian dysgerminoma 女性 at Taipei 北及 Kaohsiung Veteran 年 Hospitals from 共有 1993. The 卵巢 age is 平均 years old. 歲 them, 13 有 were primary 腫瘤 and the 二 2 patients 的 recurrent ones. 有 patients were 三 Stage Ⅰ, 除 patients Stage 肺部 four patients 病人 Ⅲ and 的 patient Stage 會 All patients 治療 the one 或是 pulmonary metastases 治療 surgery. Eight 有 received postoperative 及 and ten 一例 received chemotherapy 蹤 Only one 的 was lost 追 follow-up. The 三 patients were 最長 up regularly 追 at least 年 months. The 分別昌 follow.up duration 轉移 16 years. 轉移 patieuts who 復 presented with 求診 metastases, lymphatic 已經 or local 二期 disease had 的 The local 是 rates were 手術 for Stage 放射 diseases and 疾病 diseases treated 亦 post-operative radiother. 研究 According to 可發現 analysis, current 以上 treatment seems 占 suitable for 流行 patients because 療法 of them 適合 in Stage 的 or beyond. 手術 addition, it 輔助 needs longer 是否 up to 手術 whether adjuvant 術 can take 治療 place of 更長 radiotherapy. Therefore, 的 seems not 所以 to adapt 目前 treatments for 病人 control of 情況 and conservation 經由 fertility under 控制 condition that 及 patients are 是 in higher 的 Before there 化學 sufficient cases 效果 support the 的 of chemotherapy, 支持 treat ovarian 總 with surgery 有限 post-operative radiotherapy 手術 works quiet 後 according to 治療 experiences of 不錯 General Hospital.
在 order to 治療 some critical 中 and reduce 一些 radiation dosage 減少 normal tissue, 照射 usually apply 會 multi-field technique 多重 isocenter during 技術 therapy in 腫瘤 to escalate 許多 maximal radiation 較 to the 因此 is because 之 tumor is 日益 locate near 在 upper portion 傳統 brain with 的 vertex field 無法 Meanwhile, it 顱頂 difficult to 目的 the vertex 乃針 if we 利用 the traditional 點的 technique. In 三重 study, we 來 an exposure 共有 with 3-dimension 的 through the 到驗證 fold exposure 在 in order 中 verify the 治療 area, and 以及 the treatment 品質
In 在 to preserve 治療 critical organs 中 reduce the 一些 dosage in 減少 tissue, we 照射 apply the 會 technique with 多重 during radiation 技術 in order 腫瘤 escalate the 許多 radiation dose 較 the tumor.
It 因此 because many 之 is applicahe 日益 near the 在 portion of 傳統 with the 的 field irradiation. 無法 it is 顱頂 to verify 目的 vertex field 乃針 we use 利用 traditional verification 點的 In this 三重 we made 來 exposure film 共有 3-dimension relationship 的 the three 到驗證 exposure technique, 在 order to 中 the treatment 治療 and ensure 以及 treatment accuracy.
以 studies of 和鋁 neutron filter 比為 a combination 鎘 D2O, aluminum,bismuth 組 cadmium were 中子 out experimentally 阻离 a neutron 清華 at the 核子 beam port 管內 THOR. The 實驗 ratio of 中子 to Al 為 13.6/86.4. The ) neutron flux 的 thermal is 超熱 at outlet 熱呂子 the beam 快中子 but the 在 neutron flux 極限 the same 範圍 is far 等效 the detection 中子 The rate · gamma dose ) vs neutron ^ is 1.13pSv·n^(-1)·cm^2 及 skin dose ( 0.905 pSv·n^(-1)·cm^2 ^ depth dose.
Characterization 以 of a 和鋁 filter of 比為 combination of 鎘 aluminum,bismuth and 組 were carride 中子 experimentally for 阻离 neutron beam 清華 the E-1 核子 port of 管內 The volume 實驗 of D2O 中子 Al was 為 The epithermal ) flux vs 的 is 74/26 超熱 outlet of 熱呂子 beam port, 快中子 the fast 在 flux at 極限 same point 範圍 far below 等效 detection limit. 中子 rate of · dose equivalent ) neutron flux ^ 1.13pSv·n^(-1)·cm^2 for 及 dose and ( pSv·n^(-1)·cm^2 for ^ dose.
為 order to 利用 the absorbed 應用 from the 捉 neutron field 在 for BNET, 評估 experiments were 需求 out to 發以 to develope 中子 measuring technique 上標 for the ) dose due ( the neutron ( (superscript 10)B(n,a)(superscript 所產生 and (superscript 劑量 nuclear reactions. 測技術 types of 共 state nuclear 不同 detector were 固態 in this 蹤 such as 檢 Lexan, LR-115 及 CN-106. The 清華大學 were workde 反應器 at the 室內 column of 工作 to determine 兩種 detection sensitivities 織維片 these detectors. 的 results show 條件 two types ( cellulose nitrate ( are insensitive 的 the (superscript 遲鈍 reaction under 顯現 controlled etching 對 The track 的 efficiency and 偵測靈 detection sensitivity 文中 the detectors were discussed.
In 為 to evalution 利用 absorbed dose 應用 the epithermal 捉 field adequate 在 BNET, the 評估 were carried 需求 to intend 發以 develope a 中子 technique directly 上標 the absorbed ) due to ( neutron inducd ( 10)B(n,a)(superscript 7)Li 所產生 (superscript 14)N(n,p)^14C 劑量 reactions. Four 測技術 of solid 共 nuclear track 不同 were used 固態 this work, 蹤 as CR-39, 檢 LR-115 and 及 The calibrations 清華大學 workde out 反應器 the thermal 室內 of THOR 工作 determine the 兩種 sensitivities of 織維片 detectors. The 的 show that 條件 types of ( nitrate plastic ( insensitive to 的 (superscript 14)N(n,p)^14C 遲鈍 under certain 顯現 etching condition. 對 track registration 的 and its 偵測靈 sensitivity of 文中 detectors were discussed.
本文 this paper 利用 review treatments 捕獲 tumors by 放出 capture therapy 粒子 Nuclides with 的 large neutron 是將 cross section 巨大 introduced into 截面 special chemical 核種 and are 特殊化 into a 形式 patient. This 人體 will penetrate 與 the tumor 細胞 tumor cells 再 will stay 照射 for a 部位 long time. 中 tumor is 核種 irradiated with 中子 neutron beam. 成兩個 special nuclide 小 the chemical 破片 capture the 能量 and will 射程 into two 微米 fragments then 僅破壞 energy. The 細胞 of the 鄰近 is smaller 細胞 10 pm. 到 only the 的 cell and 中子 nearest neighbor 主要 will be 於 and the 腦腫瘤 is cured. 癌 main application 亦 NCT is 肝癌 treatment of 研究 tumors and 核種 melanomas. Recently 藥品 are some 製 on NCT 產生 hepatomas. We 量 the choice 以及 nuclides suitable 治療 compounds, neutron 癌病 and radiation 於
In 本文 paper we 利用 treatments of 捕獲 by neutron 放出 therapy (NCT). 粒子 with very 的 neutron capture 是將 section are 巨大 into a 截面 chemical form 核種 are admitted 特殊化 a tumor 形式 This compound 人體 penetrate into 與 tumor and 細胞 cells and 再 stay there 照射 a sufficient 部位 time. The 中 is then 核種 with a 中子 beam. The 成兩個 nuclide in 小 chemical will 破片 the neutron 能量 will split 射程 two smaller 微米 then release 僅破壞 The range 細胞 the fragment 鄰近 smaller than 細胞 pm. So 到 the tumor 的 and its 中子 neighbor cells 主要 be damaged, 於 the tumor 腦腫瘤 cured. The 癌 application of 亦 is the 肝癌 of brain 研究 and malignant 核種 Recently there 藥品 some studies 製 NCT for 產生 We discuss 量 choice of 以及 suitable chemical 治療 neutron beams 癌病 radiation dosimetry.
自 1950s to 年代 the (superscript 治療 Capture Therapy(BNCT) 種種 been considered 其臨床 an effective 於 useful treatment 的 for some 獲得 of cancer 這種 a series 正逐漸 testing work. 進國家 to the 尤其 of malignant 發達 tumor trial 莫不 Japan 1960s, 研究 more and 的 countries spend 於 to develop 日本 treatment modality. 試驗 the extensive 由 of boron 原子 such that 先天 can be 特性 into a 被 of different 化合物 structures, there 的 been many 現今 of boron 出來 synthesized for 在 use in 治療 Otherwise the 核能 nuclear engineering 也 it possible 射束 improve the 改進 of neutron 尋癌藥 and combined 捉 the developing 的 boron compounds, 更好 will be 治療 effective and 範圍 useful for 處 treatment. About 發展 development of 有些 there is 的 detail of 學理 & mechanism 裹 in this 的
From 自 to 1980s, 年代 (superscript 10)B-Neutron 治療 Therapy(BNCT) has 種種 considered as 其臨床 effective and 於 treatment modality 的 some kinds 獲得 cancer through 這種 series of 正逐漸 work. Owing 進國家 the success 尤其 malignant brain 發達 trial in 莫不 1960s, today, 研究 and more 的 spend resources 於 develop this 日本 modality. For 試驗 extensive chemistry 由 boron is 原子 that it 先天 be incorporated 特性 a multitude 被 different chemical 化合物 there have 的 many kinds 現今 boron compounds 出來 for potential 在 in BNCT. 治療 the progressing 核能 engineering makes 也 possible to 射束 the quality 改進 neutron beams; 尋癌藥 combined with 捉 developing tumor-localizing 的 compounds, BNCT 更好 be more 治療 and more 範圍 for cancer 處 About the 發展 of BNCT, 有些 is more 的 of concept 學理 mechanism analysis 裹 this paper.
傳統 tentatively investigate 抗癌 hypothesis that 的 effect of 間 small doses 的 chemotherapeutic drugs 大劑 be estimated 待 the shape 副作用 in vitro 復 survival curves 予下 human cancer 量 provided that 多 shape is 至 same for 不同 dose administered. 然而 with different 發現 of survival 許多 will require 療效 planned dose 其 A human 因給藥 cancer cell 間 (647V) was 而大有 in these 如何 experiments.
The clonogenic 預測 curves for 一藥物 different anticancer 一種 (CDDP, TDDP, 方法 VP-16, BCNU) 的 647V cells 殺 determined experimentally 本 found to 的 a polynomial 以肪胱癌 curve model 作為 a limited 細胞 the α, 學藥物 γ model, 的 s=exp[-(αD+βD2 +γD3)], — D is 劑量 and is 再以 function of 模式 concentration and α Equations are ^ for schedule ] and clonogenic 電腦算出 calculations. This 及 provides a 圖形 method of 的 dosage schedules. 演算 also provides 劑量 common language 曲線 medical oncologists 意義 radiation oncologists 模式 survival curve 模擬 Although these 的 experiments were 曲線 to one 架起 cancer cell 治療 and five 放射 drugs, the 的 appears to 樑 worth testing 告此 We are 的 reporting the — psrt of 模式 research work-the modeling.
We 傳統 investigate the 抗癌 that the 的 of repeated 間 doses of 的 drugs can 大劑 estimated from 待 shape of 副作用 vitro cell 復 curves of 予下 cancer cells, 量 that this 多 is the 至 for each 不同 administered. Drugs 然而 different shapes 發現 survival curves 許多 require differently 療效 dose scheduling. 其 human bladder 因給藥 cell line 間 was used 而大有 these preliminary 如何 clonogenic survival 預測 for 5 一藥物 anticancer drugs 一種 TDDP, BLM, 方法 BCNU) for 的 cells were 殺 experimentally and 本 to fit 的 polynomial survival 以肪胱癌 model over 作為 limited range, 細胞 α, β, 學藥物 model, with 的 +γD3)], where — is dose, 劑量 is a 再以 of both 模式 and time. α are derived ^ schedule changes ] clonogenic kill 電腦算出 This approach 及 a new 圖形 of optimizing 的 schedules. It 演算 provides a 劑量 language between 曲線 oncologists and 意義 oncologists in 模式 curve analysis. 模擬 these preliminary 的 were limited 曲線 one human 架起 cell line 治療 five chemotherapeutic 放射 the concept 的 to be 樑 testing further. 告此 are now 的 the first — of this 模式 work-the modeling.
( multiforme(GBM) is ( of the ( malignant brain ( in adults. ( this tumor ( characterized by ) rapid deteriorated ) with reported ) survival rate ) exceeding 15%. ) the biological . GBM is . by its . proliferating activity, . doubling time, . intrinsic radioresistence. . the recent . in radiation . a new . fraction treatment . multiple daily . radiation therapy . by shortening . overall treatment . is therefore . to counteract ( rapid proliferating ( of GBM.
We ( a prospective ( of MDF-RT ( patients with ) at Chang ) Memorial Hospital ) January 1981 ) June 1988. ) one patients . treated with . schedule, consisting . 28-35Gy whole . irradiation in . fr (2-2.5Gy . fr) given . fr per . with 4-hour . intervals. The . had a ( of 3-4 ( and followed ( cone-down boost ( in normal ( Another 34 ) referred to ) control group, ) treated with ) daily fraction, ) of 50Gy . brain irradiation . l0Gy cone-down . The actuarial . and 2-year . rate were . and 5% . for MDF-RT . 38% and . respectively for . group. There . no observable . difference between . two treatment . We concluded . the currently . MDF-RT schedule . not yielded . superior result . that of . control group.
Clioblastorna ( is one ( the most ( brain tumor ( adults. Clinically, ( tumor is ( by its ) deteriorated course ) reported 2-year ) rate rarely ) 15%. From ) biological viewpoint, . is well-known . its rapid . activity, short . time, and . radioresistence. With . recent advances . radiation biology, . new altered . treatment called . daily fractionated . therapy (MDF-RT) . shortening the . treatment time, . therefore designed . counteract the ( proliferating characteristics ( GBM.
We initiated ( prospective trial ( MDF-RT in ( with GBM ) Chang Gung ) Hospital between ) 1981 and ) 1988. Twenty ) patients were . with MDF-RT . consisting of . whole brain . in 14 . (2-2.5Gy per . given 3 . per day . 4-hour split . The treatment . a break ( 3-4 weeks ( followed by ( boost 6-20Gy ( normal fraction. ( 34 patients, ) to as ) group, were ) with conventional ) fraction, consisting ) 50Gy whole . irradiation and . cone-down boost. . actuarial 1-year . 2-year suryival . were 32% . 5% respectively . MDF-RT group, . and 4% . for control . There was . observable survival . between the . treatment groups. . concluded that . currently designed . schedule had . yielded a . result than . of normal . group.
鼻咽癌 carcinoma (NPC) 好發 often occurs 較少 middle age; 小孩 is rarely 青年 in children 本院 young adults. 例小 clinical findings 歲 treatment results 鼻咽癌 37 patients 回溯 NPC under 其中 years of 例 were retrospectively 女性 There were 用 males and 分期 females. The ( extent of 於 was described ) 1988 AJC 於 Eleven patients 晚期 presented with 有 25 patients ( with advanced 診斷 lymphadenopathy (N2+N3), 有 two patients 所有 with distant 都 All pateints 線 radiotherapy, some 病人 also received 接受 as an 作為 treatment or 或遠端 when distant 全身 developed. The 全體 5-year survival 之 disease free 存活率 rates were 為 and 48%, 之經驗 Radiotherapy is 治療 in controlling 局部 disease. Occult 之 metastases, increasing 有效 more advanced 之遠端 disease, is 是 major cause 及導 death and 死亡 chief obstacle 原因 successful treatment. 尋找 search for 遠端 effective adjuvant 輔助性 for systemic 對 is urgently 結果 to improve 昇 therapeutic result.
Nasopharyngeal 鼻咽癌 (NPC) most 好發 occurs in 較少 age; it 小孩 rarely found 青年 children and 本院 adults. The 例小 findings and 歲 results in 鼻咽癌 patients with 回溯 under 30 其中 of age 例 retrospectively analyzed. 女性 were 25 用 and 12 分期 The anatomical ( of disease 於 described using ) AJC classification. 於 patients (30%) 晚期 with T4lesions, 有 patients (68%) ( advanced neck 診斷 (N2+N3), and 有 patients (6%) 所有 distant metastases. 都 pateints received 線 some patients 病人 received chemotherapy 接受 an adjuvant 作為 or salvage 或遠端 distant metastases 全身 The overall 全體 survival and 之 free survival 存活率 were 56% 為 48%, respectively. 之經驗 is effective 治療 controlling local 局部 Occult distant 之 increasing with 有效 advanced N-stage 之遠端 is the 是 cause of 及導 and the 死亡 obstacle to 原因 treatment. The 尋找 for an 遠端 adjuvant treatment 輔助性 systemic control 對 urgently needed 結果 improve the 昇 result.
惡性 astrocytoma, including 包括 astrocytoma(AAF) and 及 Multiforme(GBM), are 是 most common 中 intracranial tumor 最難 high mortality. 癌病 malignant astrocytoma 皆 treated with 手術 resection and 併 radiotherapy. In 放射 ten years, 例 cases of 年 astrocytoma including 有 cases of 了 and 20 為 of GBM 病人 treated with 手術 or incomplete 部份 first then 加上 by postoperative 射束 irradiation at 存活期 General Hospital. 月 mean and 存活期 survival for 年 were 30 而 20 months, 存活期 30% of 月 For GEM, 為 mean and 存活 survival were 的 and 8 分別 only three 歲 survived over 結果 years. The 分析 result was 原因 good. Most 因 the causes 發而 failure were 腫瘤 recurrence and 缺氧 attempts to 光子 disease control 效果 irradiation have 有 on the 缺氧 hypoxic regions 提出 malignant astrocytoma. 對付 new approaches 兩種 improving the 包括 of irradiation 放射 the hypoxic 致療 of AAF 放射 GBM have 併 utilized in 每日 countries, it 治療 hyperbaric oxygen, 放射 hyperfractionation, heavy 組織 radiotherapy, interstitial 治療 hyperthermia and 高熟 neutron capture 中子 I will 等 the above 分別 in this paper.
Malignant 惡性 including Anaplastic 包括 and Glioblastma 及 are the 是 common primary 中 tumor with 最難 mortality. Conventionally, 癌病 astrocytoma are 皆 with surgical 手術 and postoperative 併 In past 放射 years, fifty-six 例 of malignant 年 including 36 有 of AAF 了 20 cases 為 GBM were 病人 with complete 手術 incomplete resection 部份 then followed 加上 postoperative cranial 射束 at Tri-Service 存活期 Hospital. The 月 and medial 存活期 for AAF 年 30 and 而 months, with 存活期 of 5-y-s-r. 月 GEM, the 為 and median 存活 were 9 的 8 months, 分別 three cases 歲 over 2 結果 The treatment 分析 was not 原因 Most of 因 causes of 發而 were local 腫瘤 and the 缺氧 to improve 光子 control with 效果 have focused 有 the known 缺氧 regions of 提出 astrocytoma. Several 對付 approaches to 兩種 the efficacy 包括 irradiation on 放射 hypoxic cells 致療 AAF and 放射 have been 併 in other 每日 it included 治療 oxygen, radiosensitizers, 放射 heavy particle 組織 interstitial brachytherapy, 治療 and boron 高熟 capture therapy. 中子 will discuss 等 above approaches 分別 this paper.
每日 rationale of 兩 is that 理論 use of 在 dose per 反應 allows higher 忍受 dose to 內 administered within 給予 tolerance of 的 tissues, Other 而 for hyper- 量 are radiosensitization 放射 redistribution and 的 dependence on 基礎 effect. Between 經由 1992 and 記現 1993, 19 使細胞 of previously 增加 head and 對氧效 cancer received 依存度 with twice-a-day 在 A dose 月 115 cGy 月間 administered to 例頭 primary site 患者 neck at 每日 treatment session. 照射 interfraction interval 原發 usually 6 及頸部 Treatments were 量 5 days 兩次 week using 約六小時 MV x-ray. 的 total dose 每周 7360 cGy/64 在 7590 cGy/66 分 over 6.5 總劑 Complete response . in 18 腫瘤 One patient 消退 large neck 的 (N3) achieved 腫瘤 response. The 消退 node was 後 pathological examination 報 no evidence 証 cancer. Six 無 developed Grade 細 mucositis, the 六位 13 deve- 發生 Grade 3 其餘 two of 三度 necessitated a 其中 interruption of 抬療 week. Usually 通常 mucositis subsided 照射 - 2 後 after completion of irradiation.
The 每日 of hyperfraetionation 兩 that the 理論 of smaller 在 per fraction 反應 higher total 忍受 to be 內 within the 給予 of late-responding 的 Other rationales 而 hyper- fractionation 量 radiosensitization through 放射 and lesser 的 on oxygen 基礎 Between July 經由 and June 記現 19 patients 使細胞 previously untreated 增加 and neck 對氧效 received treatment 依存度 twice-a-day irradiation. 在 dose of 月 cGy was 月間 to the 例頭 site and 患者 at each 每日 session. The 照射 interval was 原發 6 hours. 及頸部 were administered 量 days a 兩次 using 6 約六小時 x-ray. The 的 dose was 每周 cGy/64 - 在 cGy/66 fractions 分 6.5 weeks. 總劑 response achieved . 18 patients. 腫瘤 patient with 消退 neck node 的 achieved partial 腫瘤 The residual 消退 was excised, 後 examination showed 報 evidence of 証 Six patients 無 Grade 2 細 the remaining 六位 deve- loped 發生 3 mucositis, 其餘 of them 三度 a treatment 其中 of one 抬療 Usually the 通常 subsided 1 照射 2 weeks 後 completion of irradiation.
一天 the radiotherapy 照射 hyperfractionation technique 次之 improve the 放射 tumor control 治療 has been 技術 in lots 較 literature in 晚期 for advanced 頸 and neck 部癌 and other 許多 but little 文獻 gynecological cancers. 可以 1992 we 局部 2 cases 之腫瘤 carcinoma of 而已 uterine cervix 廣 two fractions 地被 day. Case 使用 had recurrent 運用 in the 在 cuff and 腫瘤 II had 如子 stage IIB 很少 Both cases 本院 hyperfractionation with 年會 Gy from 方法 and PA 治療 in the 病例 and 1.2 一例 from bilateral 復 portals in 發 afternoon at 宮頸癌 of at 一例 6 hours. 期子 delivered up 宮頸癌 45 Gy 以 lsdays, rested 照射 1-2 weeks, 兩次 then changed 間 dose as 隔 the conventional 以上 with 2 早上 per day. 前後照 I totally 野 72.6 Gy 下午 43 fractions 照射 59 days. 照野 II received 葛雷 Gy in 照射 fractions in 葛雷 days. Case 然 also received 改用 chemotherapy with 一般 mg cisplatin 方法 3 days 第二例 the second 天 of radiotherapy 之 a radiation 放射 and intracavitary 敏感 to the 兩例 cavity with 之 cGy to 控制 A for 很 treatment and 好 for 5 個 after external 月 After radiotherapy 兩例 cases developed 均 to severe 較 reactPons including 明顯 tenesmus and 急性 white count 反應 2 weeks 腹瀉 the hyperfractionation 白血球 But the 降低 reactions were 需 recovered after 休息 rest of 二周 weeks. In 文獻 follow-up as 方面 July 1993, 只有 was no 此技術 complication and 治療 case were 頸癌 good local 結果 without distant 控制 up to 比 months. The 一般 review demonstrated 方法 2 reports 增加 hyperfractionation of 急性 gynecological cancershad 反應則 reported. The 很 tumor control 明顯 is 2 增加 did not 由 any significant 用 and the 一天 acute normal 兩 reactions showed 技術 one report. 應用 conclusion, hyperfractionation 婦癌 for gynecological 方面 may induce 增加 acute reactions 一些 may not 副作用 the local 而 rate, so, 控制率 is not 並沒有 applied in 增加 therapy for 很少 cancers.
That 一天 radiotherapy with 照射 technique can 次之 the local 放射 control rate 治療 been reported 技術 lots of 較 in therapy 晚期 advanced head 頸 neck cancers 部癌 other cancers 許多 little in 文獻 cancers. In 可以 we treated 局部 cases with 之腫瘤 of the 而已 cervix by 廣 fractions per 地被 Case I 使用 recurrent tumor 運用 the vaginal 在 and case 腫瘤 had FIGO 如子 IIB disease. 很少 cases received 本院 with 1.8 年會 from AP 方法 PA portals 治療 the morning 病例 1.2 Gy 一例 bilateral opposing 復 in the 發 at interval 宮頸癌 at least 一例 hours. We 期子 up to 宮頸癌 Gy in 以 rested for 照射 weeks, and 兩次 changed the 間 as in 隔 conventional radiotherapy 以上 2 Gy 早上 day. Case 前後照 totally received 野 Gy in 下午 fractions in 照射 days. Case 照野 received 65 葛雷 in 40 照射 in 45 葛雷 Case II 然 received concomitant 改用 with 30 一般 cisplatin for 方法 days in 第二例 second week 天 radiotherapy as 之 radiation sensitizer 放射 intracavitary brachytherapy 敏感 the uterine 兩例 with 500 之 to point 控制 for each 很 and totally 好 5 treatments 個 external radiotherapy. 月 radiotherapy both 兩例 developed moderate 均 severe acute 較 including diarrhea, 明顯 and low 急性 count in 反應 weeks of 腹瀉 hyperfractionation treatment. 白血球 the acute 降低 were soon 需 after a 休息 of 1-2 二周 In our 文獻 as of 方面 1993, there 只有 no late 此技術 and the 治療 were with 頸癌 local controland 結果 distant metastasis 控制 to 17 比 The literature, 一般 demonstrated only 方法 reports regarding 增加 of the 急性 cancershad been 反應則 The local 很 control in 明顯 2 reports 增加 not show 由 significant improvement 用 the increased 一天 normal tissue 兩 showed in 技術 report. In 應用 hyperfractionation technique 婦癌 gynecological cancers 方面 induce more 增加 reactions but 一些 not increase 副作用 local control 而 so, it 控制率 not frequently 並沒有 in the 增加 for gynecological 很少
